# OCR Result for IMG_4355 2023-10-17 12_44_21.HEIC

Murray ° Ke

As told b

Manitoba. When 4
ents for a few years,
tled in Toronto.

as born in Brandon,
d with his par
Canada and set

Pete Murray W
child he moved to Scotlan

then they moved back to ue
oe ent four years in the First World War. Af

me town of Toronto. His ae
due to having been gassed in (0

i if he did
latter part of the war. His doctor warned him Lak a
not move immediately to a dry cold climate, a ne
live very long. With this decision to make, he ' ee
to the French and Pickerel River area, where he ae
made friends with Charlie Moore of Key Harbour area.

Pete arrived at Key Harbour in 1921, when he ne
live with Charlie Moore. The Moore’s place was on the
northeast shore of Dokis Island, where the cottage still 3s
today. At this time they made a living trapping, commercial
fishing, guiding and doing odd jobs.

He worked as a signalman on the coal boats until 1929,
then the boats stopped coming into the harbour for two
years. When Pete was at the Harbour working on the coal
boats, he renovated a railway boxcar into a living room and
kitchen, located at the back of the powerhouse. This occur-
red before he was married.

At this time Pete’s sister Jennie lived in Toronto and
worked with a friend, Emily Pritchett. Through this friend-
ship, Miss Pritchett met Pete Murray and they were mar-
ried in 1930.

When there was no work with the coal boats Pete, with
a helper, built Moose Inn (1929-1930) at Moose Bay on the
east side of Dokis Island. The Murrays lived here for a short
time and worked as caretakers of the lodge (see ‘‘Moose
Inn’). Pete and Emily built a lovely log house on the east
side of Moose Bay where they lived till the fall of 1932, when
they moved to the Harbour, where Pete bought a house for
them that Arthur Gropp had lived in. Through the years
1930-1931 Pete did guiding and other Jobs. When Pete and
Emily were married, her friends in Toronto gave her a year
or two to live at Key Harbour, “then you'll be back j
Toronto.”’ Emily stayed 28 years, with onl i
to Toronto a year.

In 1932 Pete and Emily
Emily. She was raised at Ke
an ex-teacher, taught youn
about six years old. After
by correspondence courses

In 1933 Pete Murray
and watchman on the co

Pete sp
war he returned to his ho
at this time was very poor,

y a couple of visits

were blessed with a daughter
y Harbour. Mrs, Reg MeIntosh,
g Emily for a year when she Hee
this she received her education

started back to wor

ome for :
104 ¢ fora store ay

y Harbour 1921 - 1956

y Emily Murray

Murray store and post office, top right McKay 5

office in 1939. At this time John Lahti asked Pete toe
build the store attached to their house. John’s dau
Mildred, Tyyne and Signe ran the store for the first
When John Lahti decided to build the new Store, Lawns

Hazzard’s mother, who operated the first and only so
at Key Harbour, had decided to close her store, Pee, |
granted the newly appointed seasonal Post Office fork, |
Harbour area in 1939. After a year Pete took over thes;

and Post Office, which he ran successfully, serving thei j
number of commercial fishermen, residents and tourisis: |
the area, until he retired in 1956.

From 1939 until his retirement in 1956, when hen
to Parry Sound, Pete became a leading personality inlh
life of Key Harbour.

Many local residents and sportsmen remember himbhi |
the counter in his store. He loved to talk and it wast |
to strike up a conversation with him. He would be co
glad to help anyone and gave good advice to many. Hf")
a jovial, likeable personality. They remember him by 1
he kept his accounts on the cardboard dividers that cat |
in Shredded Wheat boxes. The scale he used read we
his side. Once someone reported the one-way scales, e al
they might have been cheated. A government inspect
to check the scale and found it to be working ca |
Agnes Trott used it for years in her store and sill 2

Frank Weis relates that many cottagers 1 ee
would remember how the service to the Harbow! ee
and better before the highway came through. A Pe : we
80 into the Harbour to Pete Murray's stor fae
phone in the so-called waiting room, call Key a
send an afternoon order for fresh meat, frulls ne
from ‘Cira’s”” groceries and butchers in a val
MacLeod would send the order by wire. The . vedi!
the next day’s 5:30 a.m. train from Toront® let ce”
sey be in Key Harbour by 7:00 a.m. EX

an isolated area,

In 1954 Emily Murray married A

Year

=

A Parry Sound, They have two boys Pet! a
aughter Jennie, all born in Parry Sound.

1'S.e i
gnes qrol «0! .

4 i C oF
brother Bill Pillgrem from Meaford. The pul Le

ote Murray
jn his StOr é.

Pete and Emily retired and moved to Parry Si
lived until 1961. He was 73. Mrs. Murray now liv
Sound with the Pillgrems.

When Pete retired in 1956, Agnes Trott and ht
George left Toronto to semi-retire and they conti
store business which was active until 1978, w
retired.

EMILY MURRAY’S RECOLLECTION 0
HARBOUR LIFE OVER THE YEA!

Emily remembers many customers from the
patronized the Murray store. Some of these cust
Dr. Bowen, the Mackecknies, Dickies, Dr.
Banting, Dr. Booth, Dr. Downer, Aaltos, |
Michauds, Buelers, McKays, Mr. Richardson, L
oe Moore, Gairdners, Puttocks, Stanley
es Weises and many more. One couple st

OMe Col. and Mrs. Chisholm. When sh

oe ae would always buy a chocolate bar for th
Would ae - Emily remembers well how young

n nae their store and sing for all people
Painting be, months Pete would do extra JO
e CoH and cottages and take care of son
Ih 1930 ne put ice in for some.
0 the Ha, 1, while living at Moose Bay, they’
Mae ae in the evening to play cards an
2d buitt ae Puttock. The Puttocks lived w!
ul 10:3 me lodge near the Harbour. After pl
ross tp Cte and Emily would walk home tol
neice,
laser (oe Years the railroad owned a two-seate!
Mabou, Photo), One of the roadmasters W°
io — Year-round residents use it, or 4 Pt
me. Bry ecuon for as long as they could befc
"NY claims it was fun riding this j1g8

