# OCR Result for IMG_4295 2023-10-17 12_42_06.HEIC

em, Bil]
illgrem,.

: lived in :
there in”
‘d out of ©
ber. The |
13, thems
he north —
1 James’ ©
they iced ©
Island”? |
ion Fish ©
his two —

ng from

fter, the?
grem, a”
was sold

g called

ace The ©

amed it
> death,
140Wn in
another
nted to
le to dO
| name:
tt I=
am tue:
9’. The
Ur.

; Camp
lgrem §
x lifted: |

, of the a
setting |

ounds:
(ciscO)s
hitefist
5-1934
ne ver?

pes,

Tug “‘R.J. Morell’’
Left to right: Harold Collier, Walter Perks,

Max Pillgrem cleaning fish from nets. Photo
courtesy W. Stahle,

poor from 1930-35. These years the fishermen received only
three cents a pound for dressed fish. These low prices made
the business, like many others at the time, hardly worth
working so hard for so little reward. The Pillgrems fished
gill nets in 18 or more fathoms of water. The nets were set
about ten miles from the Bustard Islands.

They fished four gangs of nets. A gang consisted of 18
boxes, with three pieces to a box. One gang of nets was about
six miles long. One gang was set off Byng Inlet, one off what
they called the South Bank, ten miles southwest of the
Bustard Islands. Another gang was set off the Western Reef,
or McIver Bank as it is sometimes known, and one more
set off the Killarney Mountains. These net settings were so
far out in the bay, you couldn’t see land from where they
were set. Most of the trolling by sportsmen was done off
the South Bank area.

The Pillgrem’s fish were iced and packed at the Bustard
Islands as well as Gauthiers from Bad River and Captain
Rickley’s from Byng Inlet. All fish were shipped out to
market twice a week on the Owen South Transportation
boats (The ‘‘Manitou’’ and ““Caribou’’) which called at
Killarney and the Bustard Islands to deliver freight and mail.
When these boats quit running to the Bustards, (around
1925), all fish were then shipped out of Key Harbour by rail.

After the Pillgrems sold their place at the Bustards,
William worked for about ten years for Harold Tiffin at
Pointe au Baril, From 1951-52, fe worked tor Clem
Lougheed from the old homestead on Meaford Island at the
Bustards. From 1953-55, he fished with Wilfred Lowe from

the Highlanders Island. He retired in 1955.

Tug “R.J. Morrel”’.

Pillgrem base camp dock tug, Mascot II. Depar.

Wh Fe es

tment of Lands and

Forest boat, ‘‘Miseford.”” Photo courtesy of Bill Marr.

AGNES PILLGREM TROTT

Agnes Pillgrem was born in 1911. She is the eldest of five
children. Agnes left Meaford when she was 19 after finishing
her education and moved to Toronto to take a position with
Terminal Warehouses Ltd. in 1930. Here she met her future
husband, George Griffin Trott, who was the assistant
superintendent of the Warehouse and also Marine foreman.
Mr. Trott was with the Terminal for 33 years and retired
on August 15, 1959.

Agnes and George were married on April 13, 1933. Agnes
continued to work at Terminal Warehouse until their first
daughter, Joan, was born in January 1936. Joan married
Dave Clark, grandson of Art Bueler. They had two children:
Christopher and Shayne. After ten years, they were
divorced, and Joan married Brad Secord, a professor of
mathematics at Sir Wilfred Laurier University in Waterloo,
Ontario. They now have a son, Jonathan Bradley, born in
1976.

Lindy (Jacqueline Doris), the youngest of their two
children, was born in 1938 and married Peter Bonell. They
now live in North Bay, and have four children: Bonnie-Sue,
Virginia, Dean and Brian. They also have a granddaughter,
Darlene Arian, who is Bonnie-Sue’s daughter and Agnes
Trott’s great-granddaughter.

When Pete Murray retired in 1956, Agnes and George
purchased Pete’s store, house, and property. Agnes started
business in April 1957, and George retired in August 1959
and came to Key Harbour. He died suddenly at Key Harbour
on September 4, 1959.

In 1960 Agnes built the present store, and added the
living quarters on the back of the store in 1962, She operated
the store until 1977, serving the residents and tourists of the
Key Harbour area. She retired in 1978. Agnes, in retirement
enjoys picking blueberries and making different kinds of
fruit pies for the tourists.

FISHING DAYS AND OTHER ACTIVITIES AT THE
BUSTARD ISLANDS
(As related by Agnes Trott)
Agnes had her first visit to the Bustard Islands in May
1911 — she was a month old! Every year thereafter, until

1930, she crossed the Bay 100 miles to their summer home
45

