# OCR Result for IMG_4317 2023-10-17 12_42_55.HEIC

WHISTLER BAY COTTAGERS

Sand Bay Camp Continued

The whole family finds the camp an excellent retreat for
a fast change of scenery and a rest for the nerves, body and
soul. They visit their camp summer and winter.

The Smith’s hometown is London. Dr. Smith and his wife
Hazel Marie, who is also a doctor, have five children:
Bernard, Ceredwyn, Kathleen, Candice and Christopher.

Dr. Smith is an ear, nose and throat specialist in
Toronto and Mississauga. From 1953-59, he practiced in
Timmins. The Smiths now reside on their farm at
Georgetown.

THE “FOUR GUYS" COTTAGE * WHISTLER BAY

This cottage is located at the north end of Whistler Bay,
on the mainland, between Downers and Red Dot Camp.

Robert Sheean bought the lot from the Crown. After some
time he was told by the Department of Lands and Forests
to either build a cabin, or he would have to give up the
property. His cousin, Robert Walters of Alden N.Y., built
his cottage for him in 1964.

In the spring of 1963, the group of Richard Cooke,
Walden Roberts, Harry Donnelly and W.J. Szymanski, all
from the village of Alden, visited Key Harbour for their first
time staying at Key Harbour Lodge.

In 1965 the group purchased the lot and cottage from
Robert Sheean. They visit the cottage a number of times each
year. Richard Cooke is no longer with the group.

O’DEA © WHISTLER BAY 1960-63.

Earl F, O’Dea and wife Esther came to Key Harbour in
the 1950’s. In 1960, they purchased part of an island at the
northeast end of Whistler Bay. In 1961 they built a cot-
tage on the lot, but used it only two years. Then in 1963
put it up for sale. Mr. O’Dea died suddenly in Florida in
1963.

KOSKI ¢ WHISTLER BAY 1963 - TO PRESENT

Hans Koski and his family visited the area for the first
time in 1963 on a spring fishing trip. They made the trip
from Highway 69 in a 12’ cedar strip boat with a 5 1/2 hp
motor and found their way up to the falls in the east branch
of the Pickerel. When passing they noticed O’Dea’s cottage
for sale.

Going home through Parry Sound, they made an offer to
the real estate agent to purchase the cottage and it was accepted.
The day they came back to look at the cottage, it was one
of those Key Harbour blows from the West. They had to
hire Larry Secord to take them out to the cottage.

The Koskis took possession July 17, 1963, and moved in
August. Since buying it, they have added a combined
steam bath cabin and new docks.

Hans and wife Maelta have a son, Andrew. Andrew is
married with seven children, and all spend their vacation
at the cottage. The Koskis are from Richmond Hill

66

guest,

~R BAY 1956
RECTOR * WHISTLER a ae
o Key cy built

ctor came £0 with Darcy
of caus. a 956 a grouP © ‘us Island, north end

f Doki :
ae enacts SS BO ie others in ae ae

; . Later Of; ‘d to the .
: fae whey back rental had ‘© oe ede: family uses
eereor ands and Forests. Now only mee a landmark in
the cabin each summer. It’s painted y
ue = Susan, Alison

ae his wife Catherine and daughters

and Lindsay, live in Toronto.

HISTLER BAY
SHORTT/COATE ° W
1960 TO PRESENT

Richard Coate and his wife Judy (now ee ae ae
left their original cottage area of Six Mile La ae
of better fishing as Mr. Coate was an ardent fisherman,
They ventured to the Key River in 1959.

They first stayed with the Hurd Bros. at Key River and
Highway 69. After fishing the river they naturally found
their way to the Harbour and visited the Lytes at Key Har-
bour Lodge. The Coates then began staying with the Lytes
on their trips to Key Harbour.

While Allen Lyte was guiding them one day, he took them
into a quiet and secluded back bay off Whistler Bay. Allen
suggested that this seemed like an excellent place to build
a cabin.

They purchased the property in 1960 from the Depart-
ment of Lands and Forests. They first constructed the cabin
for a fishing and hunting camp. As Judy came up more and
more they decided that they needed more room. Besides it
was not large enough in floor space under the Government
regulations to obtain a deed for the property. They built onto
the cabin, doing most of the work themselves.

Mr. Coate passed away in 1968 and his wife kept the cot-
ae ee of years later Judy met Ken Shortt and they

ed in 1970. Ken has two daughters, Karen and

Dianne. Dianne is now Mrs. Gribbett
Ken also loved the cottag '
since made some improve
at the cottage. The Shortts
winters in Arizona.

€ and area at the Key. They have
ments and enjoy their summers
live in Markham, and spend the

a

Taggart ’s COLLAge

In the early 1°
& Ohio and Nick
Virginia and Vir.
through their a
Railway.

The CNR imp¢
for use in norther
C & O and the Ni
their mines to po
Great Lakes ship

Mr. Frank WH
Railroad purchas
1/10 acres in 1928
Isle and the south
bour channel an
He built the Origi
by at the back. T
Kitchen, where fc
and COOK. This ar

Irginig Plantatic
are stil] there tod
by se Whitaker é
” ate oe
ne Key Harbour;

ne his guests \
She ees ie
farly every _
te Sa moun
Bay yous Out th

