# OCR Result for IMG_4276 2023-10-17 12_41_27.HEIC

SP & SDS

QL SBA

#1
undlot tho name of he Dy [it Cv LE, 4 pay. ety Al
Liter
a whereas it is statod in tho said petition that the operatiuny of tho said Company are to bo carriod on FlE§o ey,

POL pee “a Osi faxes, oo
that the chief place of business of the Company is to bu at Wii. Village We Pre Micrvd Cia WE One

odin Rate And Potsics aforermcl are
that the amount of the Capital Stock of tho Company is to be Th Lad Sipe Allis

that the number of shares is to bo WE Deca

that the amount of each share is tobe #ILL Dhara cA Aollard
and thst the said Nina Nesey. Bek Valiaae rebel Illa Bid

are to be the first Directors of the Company.

and whereas it is further stated by the said Petition that the awount of the said stuck takea by each of the applicants is as fullows:—

by hiaad [pik Coe ne Fn ee

Nine Leudina LGht. fteericlye ert la19; fy, i eee
Lotta Worely, Nice UL ie tle oe Cars / a pes
Keeniow Hernrap beh, boo ey) ce Masn-sytef ane Biohe le
Wpececlo alc Lachy bm Yeelied Aellars Lihiich, Carrel five there
fat hee tw file by Me Dinu tf frcfemg |

low k; Hy OW Ale, that by and with the advico of Our Fxccutive Counoil of Our Province of Ontaciv, nd unior the authority of tho hereinbofcro
in pert recited Statute, eid of any other power or authurity »listevover in Us vested in thin bohalf, We do by these Our Letturs Patent constitute the sald

Vee e Vireloclle LN Cae, Sls Basecrpefy

and each and all such other penwon or persons as now in, or are, or shall at any timo hereafter becomo @ abareholdor or sharoholders in the said Company, under the
provisions of the said Act, a budy corpurute and politic, with perpetual auccession, and @ cummon seal, by the name of

Wy, WHEEL? ee SELL Cage

and capable forthwith of exercising all the functions ofan incorporated Company for the purposes and objects aforesaid, as if incorporated by a spocial Act of the
Legislature uf Ontario, aud, by their curporsto nase, of suing and being aued, pleading and being impleaded in all courts, whether of law or equity, and with the
powers in the said Act sore particularly uct forth Apd Wo dirvct that the capital stock of the said Company be

Wha Aes ta Ved

dollars, and be divided into Mie ieee. sharesol PZeC Loe

dollars cach, and that the said Norton Ke Mee Phew Vlpelen Gar Aer C

gu estiniony whereof We have caused these Our Lettera to be mado Piteut, and the Great Seal of Our ssid Province of Ontario
to be hereunto affixed.

At 1f11055, the Hosoccscne JOINS TEV ESLEY ROBINSON, Lieutenant Governor of Our Provinco of Ontario, at Our
Government Mouse, in Our CITY of TORONTE, ty Our said Province, this Vink

day of /}1¢,~ eas in the vear of Our Lord one thousand eyght hundred and vighty Lia. rises and ie
the furty- Ak Or we year of Our Ieeign,

By Command, WW Vie ft a Wi 1 ol

¢
pee
were 100M. CG)

