# OCR Result for IMG_4312 2023-10-17 12_42_45.HEIC

Downer ° Whistlers Bay

ctor John. D 1930 - PRESENT

octor John Downer and Emi ; :

married at Trinity College Qe ee were
on the Ist of October, 1929, They nee Toronto,
home at 27 Wanless Crescent, Lawrence Park oe a
where their family was born and raised. ee

The Downers had two children, Marion and James
Marion married Robert Ellinger and they had two children,
Thomas Richard and Peter Alexander. James married J a

The Downers were first introduced to the Key Harbour
area with an invitation to spend their 1939 vacation with
their close friends, Mr. and Mrs. Hugh Playfair Mackecknie.

While they were visiting at the Mackecknie Camp in 1941
and 1942, the Downers chose a site on which to build a cabin
of their own. It was just east of Camp Playfair at the north-
east end of Whistlers Bay. Dr. and Mrs. Downer engaged
Paul Contin, a local Indian guide, to help them construct
a small log cabin in 1943. Emily gave assistance by chinking
the cracks with cement. With Marion aged 13 and Jim aged
7, they moved in to spend their first summer vacation in
their own cabin.

In the summer of 1945 they hired George Ball to cut logs
suitable for a large main cottage. He cut the logs that winter
and hauled them to the river’s edge near the highway. In
the spring of 1946, John Lahti Sr., with his sons Sam and
Francis, towed them down river and up Whistlers Bay to
the Downers’ property. They then proceeded to hoist the
logs from the waters edge, over the rocks a considerable
distance to the proposed site, where the cottage stands today.

The Lahtis built the crib foundation and helped with the
construction. Charlie Moore, a local builder at the time, also
helped. They started construction of a small cabin, on the
point near the water, but did not finish it until later.

Konsta Pukkila, a local resident carpenter, with the help
of Harold Aalto, added the kitchen onto the main cottage
and Konsta chinked it. He and Dr. Downer finished the
small cabin with doors and windows.

The Downers spent many enjoyable summer vacauons
adding to and fixing up their camp. Many of their guests,
who were talented in building construction, helped them out
a great deal. Konsta became a close friend of the Downers
and was their most able helper over the years.

Konsta helped to build furniture and docks, as va
giving helpful hints for living with the apa ee
around camp at the time. He impressed a Saenee
and his young friends with his tales of loca : ae a

Like most cottagers OF visitors to the Key In the M he
Downers would board a CNR Vancouver train at ml Ee
in Toronto and arrive at Key Junction about Pes oe ee
Wonid then be picked up by Bee MeIntosi
Jitne ‘ce to the Harbour. aS

eee a a practicing dentist on Yonee ee te

poe on
Toronto for 45 years. The news of his acre ee = me
get around to the Harbour residents and withl

two he would have a number of local resident callers. In

Deer hunters: left to right, Herb Wilson, Mr. Wilson Sr.,
J.H. Downer, E. Salter.

each boat there would generally be someone suffering with
a toothache. The Doctor would always bring along his
novocaine and instruments. He could soon give relief to the
suffering person. George MacLeod was one such patient. He
also tried to give relief from boils, carbuncles and imbedded
fish hooks. Mrs. Downer recalled... A father brought his
little one-year-old daughter with a fish hook in her hand.
The Doctor injected an anaesthetic and cut out the hook.
There was not a murmur from the little girl, but the father
fainted, and had to be revived with a shot of rye. It got to
be quite a joke. Whenever the children saw a strange boat
approaching they would call out ‘‘“Hey Mom, boil some
water, it looks like a patient coming’’.

As Dr. Downer was an ardent ham radio operator, he
installed a gas driven generator plant at their cottage and
set up a radio shack, making it possible for communication
to and from the outside. Their son Jim who also was a ham
operator since he was fifteen, would contact his father from
Toronto when he was unable to come up to the cottage
because of exams.

The Doctor, in the 50’s, would tell everyone when the
Highway 69 came to the Key it would ruin the area.
Probably he was partially right but one cannot stop progress.

Doctor and Mrs. Downer missed spending a few full
summers at their cottage due to the children in upper grade
classes and college, but Jim and his father would go up at
least once for a few days to make sure everything was right
at the camp.

In 1968 the family spent their summer at the Key, but it
was their last time to be there all together. Dr. Downer
passed away in March 1970. The rest of the family and also
Mrs. Downer, until recent years, all try to spend even a few
weeks of each year at the cottage.

Konsta Pukkila beside Dr. Downer's ‘Packard’ sports car.
61

