# OCR Result for IMG_4321 2023-10-17 12_43_06.HEIC

Michaud ¢ Key Harbour

1929 - 1956

In the early nineteen hundreds, Leo Michaud was a guide
at Pointe au Baril, where he met and married Irma Takach
in 1928. She had one son William. The Michauds first came
to Key Harbour in 1928 when they had purchased an island
from the government. When they arrived to see their island,
they found a Mr. Jack Hill already living on it. This island
is the one that has been for years the homestead of Aaltos,
south of the river mouth on the ‘Finn Channel’’.

The Michauds then purchased the five-acre island that in
later years has been known as “‘Aalto’s Isle,’? located just
west and north of Key Harbour.

Here, in 1929, they built their first lodge and three cottages
to serve the tourist trade. Lumber was purchased in Britt
and brought by boat to the Key to build the camp. The resort
was called ““Michaud’s Inn” and was one of the first tourist
resorts in the area catering to American plan vacations.

The first lodge was located on the point opposite
Wilkomm’s, later Schey’s cottage. This building burned
down in 1934 and was promptly rebuilt where it stands
today. Leo Michaud bought lumber cut at the McIntosh Saw
Mill in French River to erect the new lodge. At this time
the town of Coponaning had been abandoned and its
buildings were being disposed. Mr. Michaud obtained
lumber materials from one of the churches there and used
it to erect more cottages. He also tore down a number of
buildings at French River Village.

Michaud’s Inn over the years served good home cooked
meals with good accommodations for the times, plus they
had local guides and guide boats.

Some of the guides and people that worked for the
Michauds over the years were: Tom, Wilfred and Nana
Nannybush, Paul Contin, Julien and Izack Leroux, Frank
Missabie, Harold and Edwin Aalto, Bill Michaud, Jeules
Mazure, Alude and Doris Michaud and Mary Horowitz.

Mrs. Michaud was known for her extra fine home cooking
which she sold to cottagers in the area. She also ran a small
store for the convenience of their guests, and had a very
welcome vegetable garden.

Leo Michaud built a large boathouse in a small cove just
west of the Lodge. Here he built a number of kit type lap-
strip boats for local cottagers. He built a boat for Gauthier’s
Fisheries at Bad River. It’s still in use. His stepson Bill
remembers the two lap-strip rowboats he built for the camp
use which Bill rowed for fishing around the Harbour, He
found they were just the “‘greatest’”’ of rowboats in the era
before outboards became prominent.

Leo’s nephew Bill Ramsbottom, of Toronto, tells of his
summers as a boy at his jolly, likeable and hardworking
uncle’s camp. He helped him with the building of Dr. Breul’s
log cottage, west of the camp.
ius ae large undertaking using large red pine logs cut

‘£0 devised a gasoline motor winch to
70

Michaud Inn.

age site. There were
logs up to th ag hel
pull these heavy green !og “he time to get the logs

e cott

5 at
: The logs were peeled, treated

akum, and are still in fair

also some legal complicatto
cleared through Indian as Q
with preservatives, chinked with

itt I I ill in use.

ondition. The cottage 1S stil :

: See also helped with the charting of the now
’

much-used small craft channel route, as he sey es waters
from Penetanguishene to the French River so well.

The Michauds bought a house 1n Midland in 1936, and
moved there. They would spend the winter months there for
a number of years, returning each spring to run the camp

in the tourist season. : :
Bill attended school in the 30’s for a short time at Key

Junction, Britt, and then Midland.

Leo Michaud died in 1953 at the age of 52. Mrs. Michaud
and her son William managed the Lodge until she sold the
establishment to Harold and Mary Aalto in 1957. Mrs.
Michaud moved to her home in Midland when she retired.

ct = . or. x ae : “a
Standing on lof} p: Debi ial gee
§ On left Bil] Michaud, Leo and Irma Michaud with

their dog “Blackie?

- Picture taken in the ] 930’s.

owell 1
Re oe Ss
with Dee
waller- ;

a viously S'
pre , Hot
Ojibway

They had
walleyes) On
1935, they F
supplied mat
when they di

As Leo bu
excellent, the
14 feet and 0:
in constructio
gently curved
be pulled up o
motors, as dic
10 hp was a |

Owen ever
about 1945,
from the U.s
decks. The Y
in use. Marit
Predicted tha
“How wrong
: Margaret re

hey arrived =
on a cold Jur

hy Harbour.

Nven by Rep
the Car with R

1e men Sat

Vhen Leo

Se
] "omptly arry

Ne has

C bedroom:
OU G lice
— Ouse ne

Mets.
in On One visi
din) an? :

er in the

Buecr. :
Bloc: talking

wah MNbing >
‘Shing ts
TAStic
