# OCR Result for IMG_4325 2023-10-17 12_43_11.HEIC

Aalto ¢ Key Harbour

1934 TO PRESENT

In September 1934 Alex and Aino Aalto arrived with their
family at Key Harbour from Tionaga on the CNR, 125 miles
north of Capreol. They soon established a homestead on
the Finn Channel south of the Harbour where the Aaltos
still live. This island and buildings had been owned by Jack’
Hill, a commercial fisherman.

Alex hoped to be able to make a better living for his

growing family of three girls and two boys, and to improve
his asthmatic condition. He could not endure working in
a city such as Sudbury with its pollution (even in those days).
He had heard the Key Harbour area had clean pure air and
water which would be beneficial to his health. He also
wanted to try his hand at commercial fishing. He and his
family were inexperienced in the fishing industry then, but
they were willing to learn. Alex realized they would have
to suffice with less than the best equipment. The trapping
had been very poor the last few years at Tionaga: this also
influenced the move to Key Harbour, where trapping was
so much better and would help the family in the winter with
a supplementary income.

In the 30’s and 40’s for a fisherman to make money, or
even a good living fishing, a family required both experience
and the best possible equipment. In the middle 30’s, the
recent great depression was starting to wane, and the USA
and Canada were beginning to recover from the financial
disaster. It was a very difficult time to start up in commercial
fishing.

Those early years of commercial fishing were a supreme
test for the Aalto family. They endured, in spite of many
obstacles, with a real pioneer spirit and some good advice
and help from their commercial fishing friends in the area.

As money was scarce, Mr. Aalto designed and built some

of their own fishing tugs and equipment. Harold Aalto,

remembers the hard work of hand-sawing logs and timbers
into planks and boards for boat building. They also fished
in the winter by setting nets under the ice. Fishing in winter
was not a very pleasant task at best. For transportation and
many other activities, they used dog teams. Through the
winter months they also cut ice to fill the icehouse, as ice

Maybee’s Camp New Home

Cabin

Original log home
and steam bath

Alex and Aino
Aalto.

t ‘4

a ‘ch for shipping.
was required to ice next season’s CaS OF ice and wood
The Aaltos also had to cut wood for fuel.

cutting were cold laborious jobs. fone Peete
A mid-winter activity was snaring foxes

family some cash money between seasons. Repair of nets
this tume OL Yeats :
and equipment was done at He cow fOr milk

For a number of years, the Aaltos kep : aa
also some chickens, to help support the family. 17 oa
summer and early fall, the children and Mrs. Aalto a :
go berry picking in the district. Most of the berries picke
were canned for their own food supply, but the plentiful
blueberries could be sold. :

Edwin and Harold remember all the family going up the
Key River to the first long narrows below where the highway
is today, to cut hay. (This is where all the cottages are on
the north side.) Here they would cut the lush sweet swamp
grass with scythe and sickle. After letting it cure for a few
days, they would return up river towing a wide flat barge
behind the tug. The next step was to gather and pile as much
of the hay as possible on the barge. On this slow, pleasant,
trip back to the Harbour, most of the family would ride on
the hay load, and many times troll off the back catching
plenty of pike. The hay on the barge would hang so low
into the water, that one seeing it, would think it was a
haystack floating down the river. This hay was then stacked
and covered on the island to feed the stock through the long,
cold winters at Key Harbour.

Icehouse

Aalto’s Homestead Island on Finn Channel,

74

both worked in
flourishing tour!

In 1944, Aalto
ie, that had sun
the tug and usec

In the years b
worked the year
tug was in bad st
and advice from
tug. This tug tk
Edwin and Ain
Harbour. The f;
new boat, as th
prices were high
no longer profit
g0 into the tou

When Harol

