# OCR Result for IMG_4319 2023-10-17 12_42_56.HEIC

To encourage his wife to come north, Cecil was very
sketchy and vague about the attributes of his fabulous Camp
in northern Canada. Mrs. Stanley thought it was a resort
and she brought white Summer suits for her husband and
two boys, and an evening dress for herself, When Cecil saw
the packed finery he said nothing as he knew if he did there
would be no way his wife would come.

The Stanleys made the long trip to Key Harbour by train
from Cleveland. To define this “long train trip’’ in the
1930’s and 40’s: Cecil Stanley would get off work at noon
on Saturday. The family would bring all their gear, clothing
and food down to the station and catch the New York Cen-
tral to Buffalo. The first leg lasted from noon until 5:30 p.m.
From Buffalo they transferred to the Toronto Hamilton
Buffalo Railroad for the second lap on their northward
Journey to the Key. After having their dinner in the diner
they would arrive in Union Station, Toronto around 8:00
that evening.

In Toronto the Stanleys would change trains and catch the
Canadian National Railway to Key Junction. After a long
train trip the Stanleys finally arrived at the Key Junction
around 4:30 or 5:30 Sunday morning when they were met
by Reg McIntosh who was seldom on time. Reg transported
the Stanleys to Key Harbour by the usual means: the one
and only ‘‘Toonaryille Trolly”’ driven by Reg.

At the Harbour Leo Michaud picked them up in his in-
board camp boat and deposited them at their island for their
two week vacation. Needless to say, Mrs. Stanley received
a shock. They purchased canned goods and homemade
bread from Mrs. Michaud who ran a small store at
Michaud’s commercial camp.

Mrs. Stanley had been around water before but had never
fished a day in her life. With nothing to do but fish for two
weeks, she soon became addicted and really enjoyed it.

While at camp the two boys tore up the island playing
cowboys and Indians. On the last day there, young Don
Stanley and Rudy and Winnie Vesely killed the first of many
rattlesnakes to be found on the island over the years. The
snake was found on the far end of the island. They had been
told that the camp was too far north to be bothered with
rattlesnakes. It was fortunate no one was bitten as it would
have taken a long time in those days to reach Parry Sound
for medical care.

The Stanley family consisted of Cecil Stanley, born 1895
in Proctorville, Ohio, his wife Irene Elizabeth Kelly, born
1895 in Paducha, Ky.: their son Donald, now of Min-
neapolis, Minn. William H. and daughter Mary B, (Mrs.
Jack Taggart) of Cleveland.

Mrs. Stanley passed away in 1971, and Ceci] in 1975. The
Taggarts have a son Wes with daughters Becky and Kelly,
all living in Brook Park, Ohio.

GEORGE WILKOMM e KEY HARBOUR

In 1941 George Wilkomm sold his share in the Nickel]
Michaud build him a cottage across
Over the years here he entertained
these was the Schey Family, He

from Michaud’s Camp.
many friends. One of

68

of these
red. 1° or
requir € e camp
employed local residents to help when ound t push. They

people that helped cook and wor As oo
guided, were local Indians Mr. an f the B
lived for a time on the north side ©
Pine Island. 5
Mr. Wilkomm used the camp 4 Ae
in 1955. Mrs. Wilkomm sold the ©

+1 his death
until his
ce a ee
tta

RBOUR 1942-1976

SCHEY — “KEYSTONE” ° KEY Sei Railroad and

Robert Schey worked for the See 1969. Robert (Bob)

lived in Cleveland until his ae en home in Florida and,

is wife Florence now make the long journey
inal Ee it was harder to make

ee bout the excellent ie in ee

i Id abou ther as es

Hanau oe oy Clee Wilkomm ae e hesapeake a

working for the Nickel Plate Road an Sacey Harbour ae

Ohio Railroads. They owned a ae Plate Camp.

today is known as Ic 1942 visi
camp even today is ki Flenry and in visited
The Scheys first visited Camp Pee bn on ee

: who had just built oe :
z One They continued these annual visits until

1955, when Mr. Wilkomm died and Bob bought the pro-
rs. Wilkomm. :

tee ae Mr. Schey made many come aa
on the property making it very modern and comfortable.
He also had a very beautiful flower and vegetable garden,
Due to time and distance, Mr. Schey decided to sell the CoE
tage in 1976, but he still hoped to pay us an occasional visit,
He visited Key Harbour in the summer of 1981.

Paul E. and Arlene Lange of Hamilton and Robert Siroc
of Sudbury jointly purchased the Schey cottage in 1976. The
Lange family is now the sole owner of the cottage.

DR. R.W. BREUL ¢ KEY HARBOUR
Leo Michaud built a log cottage for him in the 1930’s, with
logs cut and hauled from Henvey area. The doctor Spent
little time at his cottage after it had been built, only a season
or two. Due to ill health the doctor did not return, and the
cottage sat idle for a number of years.
After he left, a freak windstorm blew the complete roo!
off intact. It lifted the TOof over a large pine tree growin?
right next to the cottage and set it upside down thirty feel

€ of the pine tree and never touched

Se it and made many improvements.
Bill Michaud Tecalls when the cottage was without a rod!

Would go in and out of the cottage

HERB SMITH e KE

In the 1930's Doctor D
lot back of Michauds

abandoned fora number o

at Key Harbour in 19

Herb Smit

Y HARBOUR 1940-1969
reul had a log cottage built 00?
The Cottage and lot had ls
F years. When Herb Smith atti"
40, he bought the property. 7
m Elkhart, Indiana. He was om!

h came fro

orth channel of |

<1
william H. Stan
ending m
ane i at the O
and gecteib
hased the ; €
aalto’s Isle in 1969
mer months on vat
The family consis
children: Margaret,
reside in Cleveland.
Bill Stanley recalls
tioning at Nickel P.
Stanley brought a f
While there, his fri
managed to lift and
son, to his boat and
finally got him to th
train. His friend ma
and survived the att

ROZESKY

Leo and Helen Rozes
Camp Henry for man
opened Aalto’s Isle, a
tO visit Aalto’s Isle.
In 1959, they boug
built their cottage thx
small Cottage on the
e Rozeskys retir
Passed away in Febry
to Bill and Lea Cam,
ee Rozesky was w
© many jokes he
arold Aalto rememl
co €ntered g Cottage
ae and wipe h
Stand shaki
Usually cae ce
eae Choreboy Ff
he Used 28-pile” ee)
z u e German ex
BD his little red fs
: oe knew it w
€ late Summer I
. ask them if th
Use Pick them, just
by Mrs. Bea

