# OCR Result for IMG_4267 2023-10-17 12_41_03.HEIC

that Reg and

The years
made ™

they met and

Georgian Bay by boat, fro

such friendship ee
raveling in Mr. Ham :
He the Mcintosh dock for ae :
this visit a lifelong friendship WS started:
friend who visited them each year Was t.
of Toronto. The doctor was porn and ralse

Mouth.

Macdougal Bay @
Heights Home ine
ar sight for many Y'
the River were the McIntosh tugs, whic
came a tug called “Harold G’’> then ne
M”?. Effie M was built in Goderich. Joh

tug when Reg purchased it.

arly Sound.
ears around Key

A famili
xt and last,

n Lahti owned the

always an inventive and resourceful
to live and survive

Reg McIntosh was
hen they were

person and had to be such, many times,
at the French River in the severe winters W

isolated for months.

“Effie M’ 1964. Leona oe
motor yacht, “Hilder 2”’. Photo courtesy of L. Fishe
0 r
ee an Gordon Melntosh
ordon received his education, as the
ene eed ; re
f amily did, in Parry Sound, He Soe ae Nes
towing tugs, and in the McIntosh lumb ae oe es
to the 1940's. er mill from 193]
He served in the Canadi
: : , Jan Ar
Regiment, in World War II. Mae Own Rifles
ere

work with Reg in the family turned to

; mill fo peo
worked for ra short time
ra number of years for Gauthier ae He then
sheries at B
ad

18

Fisher ond. eae
eck, anchored in background, Eaton’s "easons.

Ca

Macdouga'

JIM AND LC

Jim received his schooli
he worked in lumber can
builder and, during th
munitions plant at Not
Aircraft Company in I
MclIntosh at French Rr

Jim married Loretta

The MelIntosh’s star
shore of French River
of three, two daughters
only two years old, w

1946.

Jim built all the tot
docks. He was a profic
boats, plus many for I
boats to 32-foot cruls

During the years
MclIntosh’s first inver

snow plane or Snow

today. Most snow bo

wide. They are flat 2

metal bottom extend

enclose his, just use

over snow, ice OF W

we
_—

in th
Reg McIntosh. Picture taker!

spring of 1978 just before ee
= Mary had to leave their pome &
= French River Mouth for heal!
River. Gordon also did considerable puilding vost
Key Harbour, He was handyman for Mr. 9° no
tired 2 a

Georgian Bay cottage. Gordon is now T
Orillia.
Douglas McIntosh 5 het
aoe left his home at French Rive! Ma
4 one He worked in lumber camps 4? :
ee guard at Burwash Correctional a
wntarlo Hydro in Ja nolas is Tet
In Sudbury, eee

y it
A Launch “‘Arawar
