# OCR Result for IMG_4310 2023-10-17 12_42_37.HEIC

oup on
ug on
from

|
:
i

cciagecabeisuceren me

SAND BAY COTTAGERS
HENDERSON HUMBUM ISLAND e SAND BAY

As told by Malcolm D. Richardson and Mrs, Pro at
Mrs. udfoot

This island called Humbum and its
known jandmarks. It is situated a short
Bay on the east side. In 1925 C.p. (Br
William Proudfoot, Maitlon F. Newma
Donald (all of Toronto) took a canoe trip in the K

hat a. While there they vis; ; ro) MBG
pour area. Ae) visited a friend, Dr. Ross, who
owned a cottage on Dokis Channel. They all liked the s,
scenery and fishing. re

In the late 1920°s, Henderson purchased Bul
built the camp and the lighthouse by stages over the years.
The buildings consist of a main cabin with dining area and
living room combination, a kitchen and porch. There are
four sleeping cabins with a sleeping storage building made
in the style of a ‘light-house’ painted white which can be
seen for some distance.

Henderson hired a local carpenter to build the tall
lighthouse shaped building. It has windows around the top,
and upper level platform. Mrs. Proudfoot remembers that
they used the building to good advantage. Brook Hender-
son and guests would leave a lantern lit when they went
fishing late in the evening or when duck hunting late in the
fall. They could see the light beacon when returning in the
dark to camp.

The lighthouse was primarily used for storage but when
needed also as a sleeping cabin.

The Richardsons and friends recall that very few visitors
or boats would be seen in a day’s travel when they visited
Henderson’s camp in the 30’s for summer fishing and fall
hunting.

Due to low power radio signals in the 1920’s and 30’s there
were little weather warnings forecast around northeastern
Georgian Bay ever reaching the area. This made it very im-
portant for fishermen and hunters to be able to read and
understand the many signs nature supplied.

When Brook Henderson died in 1940, Malcolm D.
Richardson, (of Toronto,) William Proudfoot and Dr. FF.
Tisdall, purchased the island and camp. They operated it
until 1961, when they decided to sell because one of the part-
hers died and one was very ill.

buildings are well
distance up Sand
ook) Henderson,
n, and Hugh H.

I Island. He

DR. F. F. TISDALL : : ‘
Dr. Tisdall was a pediatrician at Toronto’s Sick Children's
Hospital. He became well known for developing the famous
formula for babies ‘‘Pablum.”’
The Tisdall family first visited Malcolm
Suest then later became one of the join
“Lighthouse’? Island Camp.

Richardson as his
t owners of the

PROUDFOOT a
Proudfoots later built a cottage north oO

derson’s

on the east side.

nald Proudfoot visited his cott
‘ until he moved to Florida.

“tS. Proudfoot lives. in Toronto.

age regularly, all sum-

enderson’s Sand Bay ‘‘Lighthouse’’ type cabin. It has been
a landmark for forty years.

WALDIES & ROBINSONS ¢ HUMBUM ISLAND
1961-1980

The Waldies first heard that Lighthouse Island was for
sale from Frank Weiss in 1961. The Waldies and Robinson’s
visited the camp in the spring, liked it and purchased it in
June. They spend their summers on the island.

Tan Scott Waldie, wife Joselyn and their children, Heather
(Scott Parrish), Holly Victoria Rieger, sons Robert Ian and
John Scott reside in Pontypool.

SAND BAY CAMP

The original camp was built early in the century and was
owned by a Mr. Hall and his group. They called it ‘‘Hall’s
Hunting and Fishing Camp.’’ Coss Lyte traded one of his
outpost camps on Voyageur’s Channel for the camp at Sand
Bay in the late 40’s.

Dr. Philip Edmund Smith purchased the camp, consisting
of one building, from Coss Lyte in 1954. Since then the
Smiths have improved and added three other small buildings
a sauna and two sleeping cabins.

The Smiths are protectionists of this remote environment.
For example, they do not kill Massasauga rattlesnakes that
now are heading for the extinction list. The Smiths just wear
high boots when in the bush near their camp.

(Continued on page 66.)

———— =

ne meg oc Somme —
ate 2 Se.

we

Dr. Smith ’s Sand Bay Camp.

