# OCR Result for IMG_4392 2023-10-17 12_45_38.HEIC

140

Pakesley taken from fire tower.

PAKESLEY

During the lumbering years the hamlet of Pakesley had
some 25 buildings. There was the CPR Station, Post Office,
a boarding house and eating establishment called ‘‘Middy’s
Place’’, owned and operated by Amedie Dupruis when the
Pakesley Lumber Company (Bruce Playfair) was operating
at Pakesley. Mrs. Dupruis has lived in Alban for many
years. There were houses and other buildings also. The mail
came in early on the afternoon passenger train, except
Sunday. Prior to the 1920’s and up till the 30’s the
Postmaster was George Wright, later Robert Devlin. James
Davis was one of the CPR section men at Pakesley station.
After he was pensioned he married David Mitchell’s widow.

CROZIER ¢ PAKESLEY AND LUDGATE

The Croziers have been residents, or at least summer
residents, for most of 60 years in the Pakesley and Ludgate
area. Mr. William Crozier has a wealth of information and
history of the Key River-Ludgate district.

Crozier moved from Chelmsford to Pakesley as station
agent for the CPR on October 29, 1919. He remained there
as agent until March 1954 when he was transferred to

os Lud ne
William Crozier &ale Thom
PTE OF nich

Photo courtesy of Wm. Crozier.

PSON Mil] em
re, Photo court

Mattawa, and from here he was transferred to Sudb
1960 as freight agent. He remained in Sudbury untj]
pensioned in 1963.

He bought Charles Harris’ cottage at Ludgate When Mr,
Harris moved back to British Columbia. Crozier
his deed for the place in July 1946.

Since being pensioned he resides in Sudbury in the Winter
months and moves to his Ludgate cottage in mid-April
does not leave until mid-November.

Mr. Crozier’s first wife, Grace passed away in 1967, He
married Annie (nee Polsky) on January 24, 1972.

Ury in
he Was

received

and

“LUDGATE THOMPSON MILL”

The settlement of Ludgate was named for Mr. James
Ludgate of Ludgate and Thompson Company. The village
settlement as it was in the 20’s and 30’s has all but
disappeared.

Ludgate Thompson owned a mill and lumber business at
the turn of the century on Lorimer Lake in McKeller area,
and moved the Operation up to the virgin forest area and
established it where Key River joins Portage Lake and Key

Inlet where the CNR crosses the Key.

Jim Ludgate'

Ployees in front Of boardin

2 house
SY Of Wilfred Currie,

like others broug
sound and they
condition.

Ludgate Thom]
over the Little Ke
river and CNR trz
as it was presume
also was a foot t
where Mitchell’s
never an official s
astove and bencl
bridge, southside

In 1925 they so
yard for the mill

"ete sold to Day
limber,
