# OCR Result for IMG_4408 2023-10-18 18_56_03.HEIC

Wright’s tugs ““Coranet”’ and “‘Dorelin IT’? in winter berth.

George married Elaine B. Burns of Byng Inlet. They have
three children: Douglas Wright, Britt, Reginald A. Wright,
a dentist in Parry Sound, and one daughter, Linda Lou, an
x-ray technician, Mrs. R. Milani Sydney, B.C. The Wright
family have operated a very modern and thriving marine
business since 1947 to date. Doug owns and manages the
marina now, as George is retired.

LOTZ ¢ BRITT
H.A. Lotz started in the commercial fishing and the

tourist business in Britt in 1922.

Some of the tugs used over the years were the David C.,
and Arthur W. They fished with gill nets off Byng Inlet
between Head Island and Champlain Island. Lotz was one
of the original members of the Fisheries Co-op.

(Camp Henry continued)

Bill Henry died in 1936 or 1937, and in 1945 Dr. Street
from Fort Erie bought a half interest in Camp Henry. In
1955, Gordon Mackechuk bought out Mrs. Henry’s share
and operated the Camp for a number of years. Mrs. Henry
later married Ernest Prisque.

Dr. Street died in 1968, and left his share to his nephew
George of Fort Erie. George Street bought out Gordon
Mackechuk and he and his wife Beatrice operated the camp
until May 1974. At this time, George’s health became very
poor. He sold the camp to Glen Topping, Ronald Topping,
Mrs. John Morris, George te-Pat and Ken Nixon of the
London area. They use the camp as a family camp.

{Information on Camp Henry was supplied to the author by Mrs. George Street, Harold Aalto and

Jessie Lyte.
BRITTANIA LODGE ¢ HENVEY INLET
as told by Ernest Lamondin

The cottage was built in the early 1950’s. A group owned
the cottage consisting now of: Alfred Ambeau, Dorothy
Smith (Britt) Caroline Crosson, Port Colborne, George
Packham (Hamilton), Bill Biasucci (Sudbury) and Albert
Biasucci, Mactier, and other associate members.

156

Commercial Fishermen
Out Of Britt — Co-op

The Drever Brothers — Britt
George Simpson — Byng Inlet
Wilfred Lowe — Bustard Islands
Clem Lougheed — Bustard Islands
George Wright — Britt

Norman Boucher — Britt

John Kaswaski — Britt

Hebert Lotz — Britt

H. Lamore — Byng Inlet

LAMONDIN e BRITT

Louis Lamondin was a Tug Captain for Graves Bigwood.
He won a sail ship race and received a silver medal which
Ernest has in his possession. Louis later was Lighthouse
Keeper and piloted the ships into Britt-Byng Inlet Harbour.

Ernest Lamondin son of Louis Lamondin was born in
Britt. He built the first new Magnetawan Hotel in 1946. His
partner in the venture was William Biasucci, Louis was in
the hotel with Biasucci for a short time. William operated
the hotel for a number of years. He then sold to Dave Leam-
ing. Leaming sold later to John Day.

Ernest married Muriel (Ethier). They have 3 children:
Anne, Richard and Linda.

MICHAUD e BRITT - BYNG INLET
as told by Lenard Michaud

Ferdinand Michaud moved from Penetanguishene to Britt
in the late 1800’s. He built a sawmill on Head Island. Later
Ferdinand built another mill on the north shore of the
Magnetawan River.

Ferdinand was a millwright for Graves Bigwood in later
years. He raised his family in Byng Inlet.

Alcide, a son of Ferdinand Michaud was born in Byng
Inlet. He married Alina Lerox. They raised a family of
twelve children. Alcide was a millwright with different
lumber companies in the area. His son Lenard is postmaster
in Britt. Raymond Michaud, Lenard’s brother is retired and
living in Britt.

Lifetime resident of Britt is Dave Bushy. In Byng Inlet
Isadore Geroux worked for Graves Bigwood and has lived
in Byng Inlet most of his life.

(The Community of Britt continued)

pupils. Until 1898 this was a mission served by the Jesuit
Fathers, with headquarters at Wikwemikong, Manitoulin
Island. The first resident pastor was Rev. Pierre Hamel
appointed in 1898. In 1924 the Jesuit Fathers retired and
the secular clergy took over. The present pastor is Rev. HE.
Archambault of Peterborough.

(The foregoing entry in part was published in the Parry

Sound North Star May 17, 1945).

| cot mber

| y ¢ »
jie Betane”

| aoctic’ jndust
u

| pide fanger ™
poi Orin 1870
yaviel s :
_ william,
erman, 94

ind gaward. There

in 1982
pavid Belan ger h

jorth of Britt villag

| ver the farm. He
| fam. They grow !}
Edward Belang¢
Schildren: Arthus
The eldest Artht
Jchildren: Arthu

| family live in a n
