# OCR Result for IMG_4351 2023-10-17 12_44_10.HEIC

Photos ©

Art Gropp’s boat “Ruth”
. . . Gro
in 1921 but continued running it until 1932 when pp

moved to Moon River.
Nephew Alvin H. Gropp, of Penetanguishene, remembers

working for his uncle, packing fish, during the summer a
the 1920’s. He also was elected cook even though he wa

still in his teens. When he left at the end of the suinmer,

his uncle gave him a crisp $100 bill. A great prize for a boy.

It was the first one he had ever seen.

Arthur prospered while he was at Key Harbour, although
those were days of very hard times.

While there, Arthur wasn’t married but through his many
visits to Key Junction, he met and courted the former Mrs.
Sarah Laroque, who ran the Post Office there for Key
Harbour. They were married in 1932, when he moved to
Parry Sound/Moon River area. Gropp then owned and
operated a sawmill at Moon River.

There were four children in Arthur Gropp’s family: Alvin
of Mississauga, Douglas of Sutton West, Harold of Victoria,
B.C. and Mae (Mrs. Sirtonski) of Port Hope. The children
received their education in Parry Sound and Moon River
schools.

Arthur Gropp was well remembered by Key Harbour
residents when he would return in the 40’s with his large
boat and loud speaker on it.

He died in 1951. Mrs. Gropp remarried in 1954 to Mr.

Francis Smith who died i :
in 1978. 0 died in 1957. Mrs. Gropp (Smith) died

Lawrence Hazzar : as

se truck, Jitney | 930’s

ourtesy of Mary SirtonskK1.

HAZZARD * KEY HARBOUR, PARRY «

1932-1976 Oy

Lawrence Hazzard, brother of Mrs. Fred Mcka
for Gauthier Fisheries for a number of of
Gropp retired and Gauthier bought the Jitney :
Lawrence ran it for Gauthier from 1932 fill gy ‘

Over the five year period he used Gauthier’s ove
one-ton truck and a 1923 Chevy to draw the cars, te
used Gropp’s old log loader plus the attached oath:
storage.

When he took over the operation Hazzard hadity
one-ton truck with nine railway push cars or lorries:
were pulled by the truck. Lawrence added a closet
improve passenger comfort. The Model T truck hadsy:
moulded rear wheels of solid steel. The Chevrdl’
specially built wooden wheels, steel tired and flanged
on to the tracks. Those wheels with rubber air-inllate’
had a flange bolted to the wheels.

In the winter months, when the Jitney could 10
everyone used skis to get around to go to the Junctiol
by train to Sudbury or Parry Sound. :

There was no set time to make the runs! Key le"
while Hazzard ran the service, but he was actutll
24 hours a day. Lawrence had the only phone atthe
connected to Key Junction station. It was local
service waiting room building across fom the us
Before he could leave for the seven mile mu? ; i¢
to phone to get his running orders and clearal if
station agent at the Junction. In the summe! ne
the coal docks were operating with many tae noel
the Harbour with coal, he would receive Of a?
Harbour office also to clear the run. Thee va r
for passing, one near the Harbou!, and on
tower.

belonging to the CNR back of his mo! rele é
the tracks. For two years he had a helps!

Minot Clare for the last three yeats:
After leaving the Jitney service

commerci ith his Uae" il
ally for two years with “coma

then moved to Parry Sound. (5?

: : \et
While at the Harbour Lawrence lived moe

enc married No
paw! mily of two boy
a died suddenly
gare on fish out of th
ship?’ fies there, Wer"
rneit su ougheeds; Aa
ros? —- The boxes ©
pishe! ih fish cleane
poune® _d fish boxes fi
qo UP oe parrels usec
suc cher ‘tems there W
dock- ppG McINT
FRENC
[ntosh took 0
Ree rence Hazzal
pen he moved bi
at French River Mout
over the years Reg
at the Harbour as Lav
4 teacher before bein!
Many residents, cot
the perennial engine¢
«Toonarville Trolley”’
One such innovatio1
negatives of his broke
window panes of the
Reg used a 1928 V
some of the pictures)
the back of the car |
After Reg left in 1
from Ludgate area w
the Jitney for a coup
activities of either mé
for this period.
Many riders of thi
years remember funt
the Harbour, such a
ae carried g
close t aoe ase
0 ee
especial en eso
sels ane when «
lum on tl

a
Small rattlesnake
© let it go

