# OCR Result for IMG_4297 2023-10-17 12_42_10.HEIC

S the

ong | 2
on Lougheed * Commercial Fishermen
ott . Thornbury, Bustard Islands, Owen Sound. 1926-1961
Cr
: wit . Clemence Warren Lougheed was born at Rav
S harg > in 1910. He grew up on farms in the area. In 1926 af tie {
‘TO gg Bee Ol abe he started working for Oldfields part of the year iy
ee Gee were commercial fishermen out of Thornb IY
Mart; and Pointe au Baril. moury }
le ang Clem then went to work for Portland Cement Co i lise.
p logs trucking cement to Niagara Falls when the new generating \ / ~, i y
loWed plant was being built. He also did the same job for Portland i 7
T logs with the construction of Collingwood Grain Elevators. aly
h, the! In 1934, at age 24, he started commercial fishing on his te
1 Baq own out of the Bustard Islands from the original Pillgrem } oe
pany base camp on Meaford Island. His first year he used an open it "
Se dory type boat with a sail for breezy days and an auxiliary

gasoline motor. In 1935 he bought the tug ‘‘Warren L”’.

In 1943, on a Saturday in the late fall, Clem and his crew
went to Britt so he could catch a train from there to
Thornbury, shipping his catch from Britt instead of Key
Harbour. On the return trip to the Bustards via the inside
channel, in the dark and snow, the crew missed the turn past
Dead Island and ran aground on the shoals. They were so
close when on the inside channel, Pete Murray heard the
motor running that night at Key Harbour.

Doug Lougheed (no relative) and the Tom Nannybush
family (Tom, his wife, and their 20 year old son) were lost
that night. The son actually worked for Wilfred Lowe, a
neighbour, but had gone along for the ride. The Nannybush
family were from the Indian reservation at Bekanon, Henvey
Inlet and Key Harbour area. There was much speculation
by the family and local residents, that Mrs. Nannybush and
her son actually reached shore, as the two life jackets were
found, and certain marks on the rocks, but no bodies were
ever found. It is thought perhaps they walked inland to the
trees for protection, but perished in the cold. There never
has been any proof of this theory.

Denny McKay of Key Harbour helped pick up two of the
bodies at the Shirt Tails. The flesh on the fingers was worn
to the bones from trying to crawl up the slippery rocks.

Aalto helped raise the boat “Warren L.”’ They later bought

it and used it for years.

a _>
oe ee =

sh

Sie LAN PORNO P OC LLEE RAL ISLA

In 1948, Clem had noticed all the small whitefish and lake
trout showing up, and he was sure there soon would be a
big run coming. In 1950, he ordered a steel tug built by
Russell Hipwell, a shipbuilder in Owen Sound. This tug was
one of the first steel hulled tugs on the lakes.

At this time he went in partnership with Norman Buchan,
who had a daughter, ‘‘Goldie’’. Clem’s daughter was
“‘Wanda’’, so the tug was named ‘‘Wonda Goldie’’, except
they spelled it wrong, Wonda instead of Wanda. ‘““Wonda
Goldie’ had a gasoline motor the first year, then it was
converted to a Cummins Diesel the next year. At the time
the Lougheeds had the boat named ‘‘Castle,’’ Pat McIntosh

Island, Bustards, 1948. Fishing Lougheed’s “Wonda Goldie’’

Lougheed camp, Meaford
tug “‘Castle’’.

47

