***PROCESSED***

# OCR Result for IMG_4263 2023-10-17 12_41_02.HEIC

Presbyterian Church Copona
courtesy of Clay Conover.

Conover
French River Mouth, 1924-1946

Warren Conover, one of the original partners and
founders of Johnson Motors Company, South Bend
Indiana, relates here his first trip and fishing Pecans
over the years at Ox Lake, French River Mouth and Bustard
Islands.

The Conovers were one of our early French River Mout}
tourists. Conover first visited the area in 1924. His pa _
came to Bud West’s Camp on Ox Lake for a wiles a
fishing trip. They drove from Indiana via Sault Ste ee
Sudbury, and then took the CNR train to Pickerel a
Station, then by boat, downriver to the West’s Ca a

From West’s they would go downriver to a spot j a
the Dalles Rapids on the French. Here they left me HOE
took the motor and walked the well-defined trail ne :
falls to a spot below the rapids where there A ee
old boat left waiting. On this old hulk the BE Ney an
their motor to fish the Bay waters and gee cae
water was not too rough, they fished the Bu a ae
Other days they fished the lower Bad Riy ea Islands,
channels. And with great fishing there ihe ae) ovagear
to the Bay. yey never made i to the bay

14

Oat,
d the

Left to right: Aunt of Mrs. Conover, Warren Chae
son Clay, Lutie Conover and daughter Helen. Phojp
taken on the steps of the Presbyterian Church, 1997

Mr. Conover took his family to this remote area in {j,
He made one of his last trips in 1942, with his wife Li
and Mr. and Mrs. Clyde Ault. In 1945 the Conovers mag
their last trip to West’s Camp and the area. Warren ay
Lutie had two children, Warren Clay and Helen.

The Conover family saw much of the deterioration of{k
French River Village, Coponaning shortly after its phasi
out, as photos of Coponaning show.

Lutie Conover died in the 1960’s. Warren remarried and
lived in Rockport, Indiana. Son Warren Clay Conover lis
in Waukegan, Illinois. He and his family visited Bustait
Islands and Key Harbour in 1953-56, and 1976-17.

JOE ROBERTSON

Joe Robertson was a late comer to French Rivet Village
in the late 1920’s. He had moved some buildings from”?
per French River to Georgian Bay and helped build part
Georgian Bay Camp. He also dismantled the Presbytertt!
Church and other buildings which he sold for used Jue
Joe was one of the best guides in the area.

Some of the families at French River Mouth in tt ait
years of the century were: McIntosh, Moot Wari
Lawrence, Oakes, Brooks, Borron, Lacy, Kelly,
ae Crombie, Premoux, Laroux, Caney; "

arlaboux, Bodie, Plumtree, Newton, Stevensol

Youre:
owl

Catch Se
1 of bass. French River Mouth, 1939.

—
»s

Houses on Main
Street, French River PS
Village.

Photo courtesy of
Parry Sound Public
Library.

French River Mouth
having a picnic in fr
Roman Catholic Cht
Separate School at C
late 1800’s. Photo c
the Borron family, :

