# OCR Result for IMG_4296 2023-10-17 12_42_06.HEIC

; ford
Ske ck again to Meato
e Bustard Islands, then went ba the fishing

in September. She travelled with the family on
tug. She recalls many a rough dangerous trip-
Those were happy active years and Agnes remembers, 2°
a young girl, going with her father over to the large sawmill
at the French River Mouth in the “R.J. Morell”. The wou d
load the steam tug with dry slabs of wood from the mill.
These slabs were used to make a fast hot fire in the boiler
which would give them a quick head of steam. Each eh
they went to the French, they would visit Dean Udy's
General Store at the end of the 50-foot-wide sawdust path
from the dock, to the store. Udy’s store was situated on a
high rock near the lighthouse. There were always items of
interest and sweets to buy for the young visitors. While
walking along the sawdust path, you always had to keep
your eyes and ears open listening and looking for
rattlesnakes. The rattlesnakes were plentiful in the French
at that time.
There was a tug called the ‘‘Audrey C”’ at French River

a little larger than the “‘R.J. Morrell.”’ It helped make up
the log rafts for towing across the Bay. On these trips to
the mill, the “‘R.J. Morrell’? would race the “Audrey C”’
from the docks out to the French River lighthouse, a distance
of about five miles. It was quite exciting for all, and no one
really cared who would win.

Rafts of logs would sometimes be anchored at Long Point
Island in the Bustards waiting for good weather to be towed
to different harbours on Georgian Bay. At this time Agnes’
father and her uncle Max, along with the crew of the fishing
tug, would enjoy the sport of burling the logs. It was fun
to watch and everyone had a lot of laughs.

Agnes also remembers the evenings in the summer on the
Highlanders Island when her mother would let her and the
other children stay up until the “‘Manitou’’ or ‘‘Caribou’’
came in from Killarney. They would lie upon the high rock
with a quilt for warmth and watch westward where they
could see the lights of the supply boat an hour before it
arrived at the dock. The ‘‘Manitou’’ with Captain McCoy
came in on Sundays, and the “‘Caribou’”’ with Captain
Batten came in on Wednesdays.

A pleasant Sunday event would be a picnic and horseshoe
tournament at Camp Schreiber in Genesee Bay north of
Dead Island. This camp was then owned by doctors and
lawyers from Detroit. The Pillgrem family would be invited
for the day to visit with friends, and of course the horseshoe
competition for the men.

When she was 12, Agnes remembers going to a party with
her family to Dr. Maybee’s Camp. In the middle of the floor
there was a long table just loaded with different kinds of
cheese. She was greatly impressed as she never thought there
were that many varieties. Another thing that impressed her
at the time was a room full of big black radios with shin
knobs. There were radios to send and radios to receive a
to shore type. yep

When Dr. Maybee’s group spent the day on the Pilleoae
tug, they would bring their musical instruments alon :
entertain themselves to and from the fishing grounds. ee

be te ee.

e channel and out of sight. AS th
the sounds of music were long,

and went out th

ck oe
ue musicians,

were excellent

remembered.
ay a child on the Bustard

icking, swimming 4 !
ae i caaren go in the old yaw! boat off the fish tug wij
e

i ont and rear for safety. It was ha,
ee erat everinelee they did (for miles) tea
Koy ee na picnicking, and general exploring. ‘

Rist 929, Charles Patterson, along with Clarence Mari
friend Willard Boyer came from Penetanguishene ay
ie Charlie’s boat to pick up log
loose from the rafts which had been tow :
earlier years. Their search for log
Bad River Mouth, the French River Mouth, jh
Key Harbour and the shores from Bj)
5 were stamped with compan

d be returned to the original owners.

s there was always fish
nd boating. Dad and Moth,

travelled the North Shore 10

that had broken \
from the French River 11
covered the

Bustard Islands,
River to Byng Inlet. These log

names and coul

Pillgrem family and friends preparing to return home rol
their favourite Bustard Islands swimming hole.

Agnes Trott (Pillgrem) in her teens
holding 30 Ib. lake trout.

Clemence Wart
in 1910. He grew -
age of 16, he starte
The Oldfields were
and Pointe au Ba

Clem then wer
trucking cement tc
plant was being bu
with the construc

In 1934, at age
own out of the Bu
base camp on Mea
dory type boat wi
gasoline motor. |

In 1943, onaS;
went to Britt so
Thornbury, ship}
Harbour. On the
channel, in the da
Dead Island and
close when on th
motor running tl

Doug Loughes
family (Tom, his
that night. The
neighbour, but hi
family were from
Inlet and Key H:
by the family anc
her son actually
found, and certa
ever found. It is
trees for protect
has been any pI

Denny McKay
bodies at the Shi
to the bones fr«

Aalto helped r
it and used it f

Lougheed cam]
tug ‘‘Castle”’.

