# OCR Result for IMG_4395 2023-10-17 12_45_46.HEIC

> Jitney
ages in
11957;

Alan

Rivel:
) Key
1 side
eorg®
overt
jogs:

Thompson after closing their sawm
_ Cottages were improved and use

South. Customers for the Hurd’s store/pos

Hurd-Ludgate

Key River, 1929-1969
(As told by Wilmot Hurd)

The first of the Hurd family arrived on the local
Tone ee : al scene
on the Key Ry ori July 1929. Wilmot Hurd came to Visit
nis uncle, Charles Harris, who owned and operated the local

: t office and tourist
gore, POS ISt Camp at Ludgate wh "
| NR crosses the Key River. e oS

Mr. Harris’ store and post office were situated on the

Henvey Inlet Indian Reservation, The local Indian residents

| yere served by Mr. Harris. Also served were residents from

Key River and Key Harbour. The large lumber companies

io the north of Ludgate up the Pickerel River also traded
at his store for emergency supplies.

In the late 30’s there were few roads to serve this area
| an Indian bush trail running from Ludgate to okanan
| joined up with a short country road leading to Britt and
| Begin’s store. This store is still in business today. There was

also a road or trail from north of the Key and CNR tracks
towards Pakesley, joining the Grundy Lake Road that is now
| Highway 522.

| While at Ludgate in the years 1929-30, Wilmot taught at
_ the small local school that had recently been started so that
| ihe community children would have a school instead of
| correspondence courses. While teaching he also helped his
| uncle in the store. He left Ludgate in September 1931 to take
ateaching assignment for two years in the Muskoka district.
| Atthe end of these two years, which were depression years
| at their worst, the school board indicated to Wilmot that
|" his salary, which was a small amount in those times, would
| be cut drastically. He decided not to teach the following
| year and considered furthering his education. At the end
of the school term in June 1933, he returned to help his uncle

| with the store.

In 1935 Mr. Harris decided to retire and sell the store.
_ Atthis time Wilmot’s brother, Doug, was out of work so
they decided to try their luck and buy the store and camp.
After Mr. Harris sold to Doug and Wilmot, he retired
and visited British Columbia for a short time. He then
returned to Ludgate and lived in the cottage he had
purchased from Ludgate and Thompson Lumber Company,
previously built on the north side of the Little Key River
for their staff’s use. Mr. Harris stayed here until 1945 when
he sold the property to Mr. Wm. Crozier, CPR station a
at Pakesley. He then moved back to British Columpia.

Wilmot and Doug’s new property and business consisted

: re, post
of a land lease on the Indian Reservation, a ee
Office, boathouse, dock, storage Cet Hae
Cottages, one of which was used as a schoolhouse.

d
: “idines were left by Ludgate an
a eae a jl] operation. These

das rental summer cottages.

: rent
They also had 18 boats, a canoe and eigbh eT 2

; ities to the
ct ee train from cities
'0 visiting fishermen who came by t office usually

Flurd’s store, Ludgate.

arrived by means of handcars on the railroad or walked from
Bekanon, Mowatt, Cranberry and Pakesley. People from
Key River or the Harbour would come by boat. As a sideline
the Hurd brothers also kept some cattle.

There came a time when Doug was away overseas in the
war that Wilmot could not obtain help to cut and haul the
ice for the icehouse. He was compelled to cut it with an ice
saw by hand — a real task — and with his father’s help the
two of them drew it up to the storage with a dog team.

In 1937 Doug and Wilmot had leased about nine acres
of land on the northeast side of the Key River, a mile or
so west of Ludgate. This is where Key Marina is on Highway

tie Harris’, fish catch, Ludgate store.
Charlie H -

