# OCR Result for IMG_4293 2023-10-17 12_41_57.HEIC

ork

ID.

y)

SS OO. Orr wa
Boge, 10-14 OTR. Seeks . Po ea : COS peas Oe; f
De ee *, ee er UE he nen Y/ -B we
it oe z Api <6 }
é * Pal PY ‘c# / Y .
LAID oe, cont® Ve 7 poeymout we omit AV, 6/2 20, oh tenes seem}
Bk ae % CAAA wid « ORK apt ¥ a “7 ¢

>

Barclay Rock{/

as (LERAY/ (Ser
3 Seek Turnaway Rk > Cantin Pt ‘ ah Ge Kip K/A) i
See a4 Rsk PANG tee Ua Gi pirate ee
: Aas Al 08 Says pet pe
fed ee: ee okey “se a Ni

*o

: ate y Sui
res 0 Pe DIY ee
& "Everard Reef y (Ep . $ e

2

| Georgian Bay +3'2»
Camp 2

3
RO } Z
Ise Mt [Je tee WYA0>

3 Guy, aMeaford les
a) ee Ff “fh ths cel 7
ale Castle > ¥. hr RO

“Vy
ey,

og re

: 11
Seige

ins Pt

cS ice ee 4B US TAR D
ne. soal| oe ee Si : OBlack Rk
‘ Talete tant
es a Southeast RRQ :
1 Lighthouse : 8 Green Island. Hazzard’s original base camp. Dana Friend‘’s
2 Bustard Island Camp, now George Kelk private camp now Calders
3 Dominion Fish Company base in the late 1800’s 9 Protected boat anchorage
4 Meaford Island, Pillgrem’s original base camp, later Lougheed’s 10 Drever outpost camp
5 Pearl Island, Max and Pearl Pillgrem’s home, now Gerald Ruble 11 Whitefish Bay, James Gairdner cottages
6 Highlanders Island, Pillgrem main base camp, later Lowes, now 12 Ice age swirl holes
Doctor Hughes The sailboat (Coral) wreckage was left on a rock at the end of Coral
7 Protected boat anchorage Channel between Tar Pot and Tie Islands, Bustards.
BUSTARD ISLANDS planned to operate it as a tourist resort, but Wilfred Lowe
Why were 559 rock islands in the north end of Georgian retired from fishing in 1955. Bill, disappointed left the
Bay named after the ‘‘bustard’’ a slow moving game bird Bustard Islands.
of northwestern Europe? These game birds frequent isolated Bill then needed money and sold the camp to his sister,
island areas, gathering in large flocks, always away from Agnes Trott, and Walter Sanders (now of North Bay). They
man and other wildlife. These habits perhaps prompted ran it as a tourist resort for three years 1955-56-57. In 1958,
fe name too the lng. Walter Sanders sold his share to Agnes’ son-in-law, Peter
The Bustard Islands are similar to the bird habits as they Bonell. For the next few years, the camp was used privately
are an isolated group about three miles from the mainland. for summer holidays until 1968, when it was sold to George
After much research nothing has come to light as to why Kelk of Toronto,
or who named them ‘‘Bustard’’. Perhaps the foregoing is ICEAGE ‘‘SSWIRL HOLES”
correct. : : These swirl holes as they are called (we are told by dif-
This group of very picturesque islands, a gem In Georgian ferent sources) were made in the granite rock by the melting
Bays’ blue waters, are worthy of a visit and to fish. In the of the thick glacier ice. The melting ice water picked up a
early 1800’s this group of islands was an Indian reservation very hard substance, dark green rock and ina slight depres-
before the commercial fishing era. Their deep and protected sion this rock was swirled around and around and ground
inner channels are a favourite mid-summer anchorage for out a perfectly round hole in the softer granite. These holes
luxurious motor and sail yachts. are usually three or four feet across, and four or more feet
Bustard Island Camp ° 1954-1968 deep. Usually the remainder of the smooth green rock can
When Bill Pillgrem and his father, William, were be found in the bottom of the swirl hole.
Working for Wilfred Lowe Commercial Fisheries on the There are swirl holes In many locations in the area. One
Bustard Island, they built the original Bustard Island Camp is on Tanvat Island in the Bustards, some at Henvey Inlet,
in 1954 on Island K.G. 7057 just west of Burnt Island. They at Key Harbour and many other locations.

43

