# OCR Result for IMG_4356 2023-10-17 12_44_22.HEIC

> Lawrenc,

and Only st Ore
Store, Pete Was
Office for Key
k over the Store
erving the large
and tourists jn

vhen he moved
rsOnality in the

‘ber him behind
nd it was easy
ild be only too
many. He had
er him by how
lers that came
1 read only on
scales, feeling
nspector came
1g accurately:
id still has "
A those yeals
r was faster

DU al

ore Murray
inthis Store.

. pie and Emily retired and moved to Parry Sound. Pete

| eduntil 1961. He was 73. Mrs. Murray now |
bound with the Pillgrems.

|

} When Pete retired in 1956, Agnes Trott and her husband

‘(age left Toronto to semi-retire and they continued Pete’s
ju business which was active until 1978, when Agnes

jetted.

ives in Parry

is}

MILY MURRAY’S RECOLLECTION OF KEY
HARBOUR LIFE OVER THE YEARS

| ‘nly remembers many customers from the area that
| ttonized the Murray store. Some of these customers were
). Bowen, the Mackecknies, Dickies, Dr. Ross, Dr.
ating, Dr. Booth, Dr. Downer, Aaltos, MacLeods,
‘thauds, Buelers, McKays, Mr. Richardson, Dr. Tisdale,
ttle Moore, Gairdners, Puttocks, Stanleys, Veselys,
ts, Weises and many more. One couple stands out in
‘ory, Col. and Mrs. Chisholm. When shopping, he
would always buy a chocolate bar for the Murray's
‘i. Emily remembers well how young Bill Stanley
| "Sit their store and sing for all people present.
inter months Pete would do extra jobs such o
i boats and cottages and take care of some cottages.
ld also putice i for come. ol:
Othe TS while living at Moose Bay, they wou anh
rbour in the evening to play cards and ne
Yd : Charlie Puttock. The Puttocks lived where a
hy 034 S lodge near the Harbour. After playing

ge se Bay,
ia 4, “© and Emily would walk home to Moo

Ly the gg

| arly :

|e (se, Years the railroad owned at

= 4
Sa

= SS

wo-seater pump tYPS

let Key
a "8 Photo), One of the roadmasters ae car, to
a the Y€ar-round residents use it, OF 4 be the snow
a ee for as long as they could be

"Y Claims it was fun riding this JIg8e-

Pr owe

aS im ahes

Emily Pilerern (nee Murray) and friend on 2 seat hand
pumped “‘Jigger’’ type transportation vehicle.

and store looking south, 1958.
use

105

Murray he

