# OCR Result for IMG_4316 2023-10-17 12_42_52.HEIC

1 few barrels of gas and the gene
pet? a later sold to the Gauthiers.
pee? son's private cottages have since been loc:
Ane 4 for some years and are stij] there, The on
i¢ oa own the island and buildings, ey cu
‘«)

"MOOSE BAY AREA Cory

Tator ne

a
in TAGERS

{ BAY”

sper the Moose Inn burned down, the island rev
fe pepartment of Lands and Forests for laxes. R
son, a CNR telegraph operator in Toronto pure} oe
ers d, KG 9164, for his private use. Over the ae
a his family built cottages and one large main builenke
wich pecame a landmark. : :
poss visited Key Harbour often. He wo
ain most Friday nights and

snd
ips ilan

i
uld leave Toronto
z | would return to
na Sunday night. His family Spent their Vacations each
qmmer at Moose Bay. The Andersons had a small cabin
| jack of the coal dock, which they used for es theit boat
nd changing clothes on arrival in Key Harbour, also as a
shelter if weather conditions prevented their arrival at their
camp.
The Moose Bay Camp was sold to Lennart Loevenmark
in 1975.
Mr. and Mrs. Ross Anderson had five children: Twins
Donald and Ronald, Frank, Marion and Jean.

jnformation supplied by local residents and friends for Anderson story.

THE MISSING LOEVENMARK PARTY, 1957

Inthe summer of 1957 Lennart Loevenmark with his two
younger brothers, Erik and Nils, undertooka fantastic canoe
tip ftom their cottage which was located at Pointe au Baril
(0 Temagami which is north of North Bay. They were to
§0 via Georgian Bay, French River and adjoining waters.

After a short time out of Pointe au Baril, one of our
Georgian Bay storms hit them and the brothers were
‘ported missing. Search planes were sent out. One of the
Hanes landed at the harbour and checked with Agnes Trott,
ilo one had seen them. The plane did locate them about
eeht miles south of Key Harbour. On their auspicious ar-
ala the Harbour they checked in with Agnes Trott and
al Was Well

The

"turn trip to Temagami took six weeks. At one local
ala small island at the mouth of Bass Creek, their first
= 4 picture of their canoe and the year 1957 is in-
Ned on the rock face and is visible from the water.

A\

fta : i Fa ig
“T this trip experience the Loevenmarks ae S,
Nber of years in the Fox Bay area until they Pe
KG9164 from the estate of Bernice Rosalie Hines,

Y Anderson. This island is located in Moose Bay.

oe Loevenmarks demolished the old black and white mal

: : i dis-
air  ©Ottage in 1976. This building had fallen Pld
the Tue to Vandals and weather. They now plan to

d the

el ee e : r an
. © Neagy future. as they love our Kev Harbou!

‘Susand Islands

ife Erica, their
broke.

0.
0.

Venmart ¢ : ¢ j f
py. Mark family are Lennart, his W a Be
“UD an a Fak SOs , Jive in
" 8nd daughter Kristina. They live }

arby, The

Co
eee ISLAND e “MOOSE BAY”’
- CANON WALTER C. LEE
The log

©ventually —

as built by p
reverted ; y rete

O the Province,
Art Adams Of Toron

Cottage from
a the
Visited wis

Murray in 1930, and

to purchased the parcel of land and

artment of Lands and Forests. He

eat deal. When he passed away in the
tions were that his body be cremated

€S sprinkled under the large pine tree north of
Art’s instructions were carried out.

ae ae C. Lee and Fa Adams, Art’s son, jointly
a € property and cottage from him before Art died.
Adams has also died since.
Rev, Lee Visits h
his friends. Heis P
#1, Stroud,

IS Cottage a couple of times a year with
astor of St. Paul’s Anglican Church, R.R.

YULE, DOKIS

In 1958, Owen and Margaret Yules, who had stayed at
Michaud’s Camp,

attanged with Pat and Gordon McIntosh
to build a cabin for them on an island near Dokis Island.
This was an island that had been the only one marked sold
on a 1918 map. On later maps it was not shown. Fortunately
for the Yules, they had found the old survey post with the
number KF 9176 cut into it. When they applied to buy it,
the authorities at Parry Sound would not believe that the
island existed, but when they heard about the survey post
they did a more thorough check and it was found that
someone before 1918 had purchased the island for $75. As
no cabin had been built on it within two years, it had
reverted to the Government and was Crown land. They
bought it just in time as it turned out, because not long
afterward the Government closed off all Government land
and islands for purchase in the Bay.

In 1954 David Yule and William (Bill) Rosenfeld, who
were University friends at the time, built themselves a fishing
cabin. It is located directly south of Dr. Downer’s cottage
on Whistler Bay. Fred Sedore helped them to add another
room a year or two later.

Owen Yule and his wife Margaret (nee Hill) have two
children, David and Lesley. David’s wife is Joan (nee Red-
path). They have two children: Karen and Bruce. Lesley
married William (Bill) Rogan. Their children are Lindsay

GARDINER ¢ DOKIS

Gardiner of the West Hill Toronto area bought
Pee pie in 1951 and built his own cottage the same
island K his wife Eleanor and their daughters, Julia and

year. James, heir cottage on the east side of Dokis Island

each summer.

ON
Nn

