# OCR Result for IMG_4288 2023-10-17 12_41_50.HEIC

Lightkeepers

The lighthouse on the Bustard Rocks is located 2 3/4 miles
southwest of the entrance to the French River, just west of
the main Bustard Islands. It was commissioned in 1875 at
which time a house and other small buildings were built.
No records were kept from 1875 to 1885 of lightkeepers or
their names except that Edward B. Borron and his wife and
son moved there in the spring of 1875 to maintain the light.
Then Edward B. Borron Jr., with his wife and new abanvanes:
moved into the lighthouse in the spring of 1885 to apnea
the light. The Borrons were the keepers of the light for the
next 33 years.

On April 1, 1919, David Mountnay was transferred from
Badgeley Island to the Bustard Rocks light. Mountnay was
lightkeeper from 1919 until he resigned August 28, 1928
On the next day, Thomas William Flynn took sore pean
charge of Bustard Rocks light, and was appointed
permanently January 17, 1929. Flynn maintained the light
until June 1951 when the lights were changed over to
batteries and maintained by contract from June 1951 to 1953
by Reginald McIntosh of French River Mouth. From 1953
they have been serviced by Coast Guard personnel

LIGHTHOUSE AND LIGHT FEATURES
¢ BUSTARD ROCKS

The present building (erected 1893), is 48” high from high
water mark. Original colour was green construction uae
Light are of visibility 1s 360 degrees, seen seven miles in cle
weather. Dimension at base 18’ x 18’, at top 7’ Tea <
there is no fog alarm. There was a centre light and ao ae
lights. From 1875 until 1951 the lighting was of the oil aS
lamp type. These were refilled and lit daily. The central 1
on the rocks was an omnidirectional light using a glass =

There were two range directional lights: one on L ae
Island, out from the mouth of the French River: ra ae
is where French River Village used to be. hee ao

reflectors similar to early electrical lj i
fe y electrical lights in 195], They were

“Bustard Rocks’

1875-1953

Supply ship “Kennedy” of —
the Department of Transport
(Coast Guard) Parry Sound
district, stuck in early freeze-up,

set in a galvanized metal frame housed in wooden
constructed tower buildings.

In 1951 the light was converted to Edison Cell Batteries,
no longer requiring a caretaker, and the house on Bustard
Rocks no longer used.

(AS TOLD BY THE LATE DICK McKEAN — DEPT,
OF TRANSPORT, PARRY SOUND ¢ THE NORTH

. STAR, MAY 13, 1965)

. We were at the Bustards — many years ago — with the

C.P. Edwards’’, supply ship. The problem was to put in
a set of range lights, automatic, so the lamplighter, Tom
Flynn, could retire and go ashore. How do you line up @
reflector lantern, so that it will line up with a lighthouse
rae which you can’t see because of the boards in the
ae ? Simple! J got Buck Abbott to bore a hole in the bach
: the tower, sighted back along one edge of a carpenters
nae and used the other leg of the square to line up tht

So it would be beamed on the proper course.”

ce oe the house had reached a state of extrem
dis ee and was turned over to Crown Assets [0!
Meine ce buyers came forth. Jim and Gordo!
sh o rench Rive eit DY
October 1965. r contracted to remove lt ™
In

ee ne Parry Sound Coast Guard installed moder
Bache ou 55 amp, 12-volt, 4-place changer set UP for
ocks. The Coast Guard maintain and service ™

light and r ‘
ae ange light from the Parry Sound Coast Guat

The li
lighthouse _keeper’s dwellings were built and

maintai

be Baan 4 e Department of Transport. They hal
and storms at i: warm to stand up to the gale force wits
house inside oy muhews Rocks. As noted by visitors
cedar, called oe lined with narrow tongue-and-gr0r
faced the cee Fenoig./) Beau fal te ne
lightkeepers {} ne The house was furnished DY

nemselves. The Department supplied ca

Lightkeeper F:

1875-1951
Edward Barnes Bor

He was a prominent Canadian
Ontario Parliament for Algoma ir
Stipendiary Magistrate and was re
of a greater part of Northern Onta1
Georgian Bay. He also made ma
canoe for the Government into tt
Bay Area.

With no government recor¢
lightkeepers being commissioned
gathered from family knowledge
information indicates it is quite p
Sr., his wife, or some member
maintained the light from 1875-1
was Stipendiary Magistrate. If s
records that Edward Barnes Borr

1875.
The preceding notes are taken

Barnes Borron 1820-1915. Nortl
Servant Extraordinary’? compil
Western Ontario University, Lot

Continued from preceeding
Department of Transport.
lighthouse with a small open bos
wick type lanterns used in those d
and heat, but no radios were su
The ship ‘‘Grenville’? was bui
Transport and was their supply s
being transferred to the Prescott «
day, it was carried down river by
was in the early 70’s which, as far
was the end of the ‘‘Grenville”’
The lighthouse and range tow:
for small boat parties cruising n

Information courtesy of Depart)
Guard Parry Sound, J.D. Kenr

Third lighthouse at Bustard Ro

the light batteries for 4 number
Fisher with the MclIntoshs ha

