# OCR Result for IMG_4298 2023-10-17 12_42_14.HEIC

Lougheed’s tug ‘Warren L”’, 1943

worked for him.

In 1950, new nylon nets made their appearance replacing
the linen or cotton types. These new nets were very efficient.
In the fall of 1951, they made one haul of 5,200 pounds of
whitefish and trout from the shoals.

William Pillgrem worked for Clem Lougheed in 1951-52.
His wife, Winnie, cooked for the camp for the two years.
In 1952 Clem had a steel hulled tug, ‘‘Donna Gay’’. They
used the tug until 1962, when it was sold in Clem’s estate.
It is now a fish tug on Lake Erie where it originally came
from. At his death he also had tugs “‘E.D.M. Purvis’’, and
“GL & Lee

Clem left the Bustards in 1953 and moved his operation
to Britt, because of slow shipping from Key Harbour and
no telephone communications with markets. At this time
he was also catching too many fish to be handled at the
Meaford Island facilities. It also was difficult then to get
men to work in isolated camps. By this time fish were being
shipped from Britt by refrigerated trucks.

While the Lougheeds had their camp at the Bustards, the
Aalto brothers Harold and Edwin, would fill their ice house
each winter as they did many others in the area until recent

years.

Over the years many men worked for Clem Lougheed.
One of the first was George “‘Scotty’’ Simpson of Britt, then
Norm Buchan, Hughie Perks, Garnet Smith and William

Fishing Tug ‘“‘Donna Gay”?

«warren L”’ at Dead Island gap, 19. 4
The tug was raised after being sunk d
the fall of 1943.

: rd), and Urban Hebert who now [iy
Fer ee aa brother Bert still fished 9,
SG in 1979, with the “Wonda Goldie”. Others We
Marvin Foster, T hornbury, and Murray Hillis of Meafo,j

Clem’s son Warren worked in the summer months wij
his father. Then in 1950, at 16, he worked full time. In 195
Warren opened up Lougheed Fisheries, a wholesale busing
in Owen Sound. Warren does not fish on the lake 10)

Clem Lougheed married Pearl Louden in 1933. They hy
four children: Lavernna, Corinne, Wanda (Godin) of Ove
Sound, and Warren of Owen Sound. Clem passed away;
1961, and his wife in 1981.

BUSTARD ISLANDS COTTAGERS
KELK © BUSTARD ISLANDS, 1968 TO PRESEN]
George Kelk lives in Don Mills. Mr. Kelk purchased Agn

Trott’s and Peter Bonell’s Bustard Island camp in 19681
his private use.

Their camp consists of a large main cottage and tht
cabins. Mr. Kelk liked the fact that there is access to the
camp by plane in all winds.

In 1974 Dan Row tore down the old main cottage!
materials for trapping shacks. Edwin Aalto was then hit
to construct a new cottage with help from Larry Secord!

the same site. They completed the main part and Mr. Ke
did some of the final details.
The Kelk family spend their summer vacations thet

DR. SIMON J. HUGHES
Bustard Islands, 1962 To Present

ay ee Practices medicine in Owen Sound. He
in the ae Gene place for a summer home for the la
of Wilfred ae y contacted John Harrison, who told
Bustards. D on oe on the Highlander Island _
later ras a and his family visited the islant’
Hughes ha Sed the property and buildings in 196 ;
there. Fe aie and built a lovely sume
StuAiCer sy; Ooo ee cre

Doctor Hughes and his wife Teresa have six chil

John Joan, Mike, Peter, Tim and Kathleen.

(Commercial f
1960’s, when
of six million
it had come, T
even more se
quarters finis
Standby, the |
The sea lam
and within te!
there. At first
invader from)
left on the fisl
lamprey, the
emigrant equ
Georgian Bay
Bay suddenly
source for tro
They were lat
still virtually
In 1960, lif
ebb, Only a hz
fished only sp
owners havin
sion which a
standing aga
return, witho
yellow picker
in the fishery

