# OCR Result for IMG_4299 2023-10-17 12_42_16.HEIC

Hills coe i
Cafoy
nmer Months yj;
1 full time. In 1
wholesale busine
on the lake pp,
in 1933. Theyh:
a (Godin) of Oy:
em passed away:

TTAGERS

8 TO PRESEN
lk purchased Age
d camp in 19"

hit

{he

cottage and
-e is access ©
| main collie
alto was Le
Son and MM:

(Commercial Fishing continued)

1960’s, when production rocketed from near the zero level
of six million pounds, then, as quickly plunged to whence
it had come. This time, the let-down of the fishermen was
even more severe, for the sea lamprey was now three-
quarters finished with the job of eliminating the old
standby, the lake trout, from the Bay.

The sea lamprey entered Lake Huron in the late 1930s,
and within ten years destroyed the lake trout population
there. At first, the Georgian Bay fish seemed to resist the
invader from the Atlantic, but by 1960, there was no trout
left on the fishing grounds. Other fish were attacked by the
lamprey, the most important of them the whitefish. An
emigrant equally spectacular, but of less importance to
Georgian Bay fishermen, was the smelt. In the 1940’s, the
Bay suddenly teemed with them. At first, except as a food
source for trout, they were of no commercial importance.
They were later given some attention, but in 1960, they were
still virtually of no importance, commercially.

In 1960, life in the Georgian Bay fishery was at its lowest
ebb, Only a half dozen fishermen set nets, and most of these
fished only sporadically. Most fisheries were dormant, their
owners having placed their licences in abeyance, a provi-
sion which allowed them to keep their licences in good
e day when profitable fishing might
f fees. At this time, too, the
default, the leading species
unted to 26,000

standing against th
return, without the payment oO
yellow pickerel had become, by
in the fishery. The total 1959 catch amo

Top left: The south end of the ‘‘Gun
Barrel’’, centre Green Island, Dana Friend’s
camp, foreground Lowe’s fishing tug.

Top right: Bustard Island “‘beauties’’, in
Oilies, with lake trout.

Left: Lowe’s home fishing base
Highlanders Island, formerly Pillgrems.

pounds of yellow pickerel} (roughly one third of the pickerel
production rate for the previous 30 years), 4,500 pounds of
whitefish, 2,300 pounds of pike and 100 pounds of trout.

In 1960, three big questions concerning the Georgian Bay
fishery were awaiting answers. Fishermen and government
workers in fisheries wondered if the program, then under
way, of treating lamprey spawning streams with a toxin,
would be successful, thus opening the way to restoring the
trout. They wondered if, supposing the control measures
failed, the whitefish could burst through the lamprey bar-
rier on its next scheduled upward surge. And they wondered
what might be the future of the Georgian Bay commercial
fishery if the answers to both of these questions were
negative.

Courtesy of the Ministry of Natural Resources Parry Sound

CALDER’S ‘‘GREEN ISLAND’? BUSTARDS
1964 TO PRESENT

The Calder Family purchased Green Island in the Bustard
Islands Group from Dana Friend of Great Neck, N.Y. in
1964. When they purchased the camp there were 4 cabins,
1 kitchen-dining room combined and an icehouse.

The Calders originally came from Parry Sound and
Sudbury area. The family consists of Robert Calder, his
wife, Evelyn (nee Ley), their children are; Lisa Ann and

Lana Lee Calder. They reside in Alban. A

