# OCR Result for IMG_4279 2023-10-17 12_41_28.HEIC

SEELY-SEDGWICKS °
1938-1977

John McIntosh built the first cottage 3
(now deceased) of Willoughby, Ohio, 10 cn
was located on the west side of Macdouse Bain
Dalles Rapids. The McIntoshes built him a sleep
in 1946. .

In 1943, R.A. Sedgwick of Columbus 0

from his cousin Willard Seely. When !
ney in Parry Sound presented

the property, the attor
with a deed signed by the King of England! a

Jim McIntosh sometimes met the Sedgwicks in ea
Sound and transported them in his boat fo them oon
They also came by train to Pickerel River Station and .
there by boat to above the Dalles Rapids where tne)
portaged to a boat below the rapids, then on to the cones

In 1947, Jim McIntosh remodelled their cottage, adde
six feet to its front and glassed it in. They also installed cle
tric (Delco) lights, bathroom, shower, a kerosene hot watet
tank, and kerosene refrigerator.

R.A. Sedgwick, with family and friends spent many en-
joyable summer vacations, boating and fishing at their cot-
tage until they sold the cottage.

Mr. Sedgwick passed away in 1975. At that time the
family sold the cottage to Robert and Laura S. Nichol who
live in Florida. Robert is Bruce Thompson’s uncle.

HUFF ¢ FRENCH RIVER MOUTH

Woodrow and Thelma Huff of Columbus, were family
friends of the Sedgwicks. Mr. Sedgwick was asked by Mr.
Seely to sell his sleeping cottage which he did, to the Huffs
in 1956. Woodrow remodelled and enlarged the cottage. The
family visit their cottage each summer.

Their children are: Thomas, wife Nancy, of Worthington;
their sons Jeffrey, Steven and Wayne, his wife Debbie and
their daughter Chrystal, of Columbus.

Barry, wife Joyce, and children, Brent and Andrea, of
Columbus, Maurreen, husband Richard Schilling, and
children Timothy, Susan, Kathie and Carol, of Columbus.

Jennifer, husband James Clark of Columbus.

3 << “ ee

for Willard Seely
36. The cottaZze
y below the
ning cottage

ought the cottage
Sedgwick bought
him

be oe Se es ‘
R.A. Sedgwick with nice walle
30

(,

| (French River Cottagers continued)

PEACOCK * GEORGL
_ Howard Peacock from Mayfield F
) an island just south of the Fisher’s isla
| Charlie Fisher built their cottage for
| family. Members of the family vi
} summer.

SOLOMON e GEORG
Len Solomon first became interest
Ralph Harter’s group, from Cleve
Georgian Bay Camp from Gregory
| When Harter wanted to sell the
Solomon if he wished to purchase
clined. The Solomons purchased the
camp for $50. They soon built their
and moved in.
HARRINGTON ° FRENCH RIVER MOUTH It was a problem at that time to
g s aes a great deal of effort, as Bass Cree
Carl and Margie Harrington first visited the areain jj condition. Len Solomon rebuilt t
staying with Margie’s uncle, Woodrow Huff, j, material for the cottage to the islar
Harringtons visited their relatives for the next four sum, boats and equipment on it. The f
loved the area and decided to build their own cottag. Pickerel Station, from there by boat
They purchased a crown land parcel on the east site! the tramway to reach the Bay.
Macdougal Bay below Dalles Rapids. This parcel i Later, Len Solomon purchased
located on the old Coponaning townsite where the origit eventually built another cabin on
““Wabb Town’’ had been. - summer residents for years.
Reg McIntosh hauled the redwood lumber to buildtte Mr. Solomon died and Mrs. Sol
: : S : 3 the Fullers in 1970. Mrs. Solomon a
cottage with his tug, “Effie M. Oe cand
Carl and Margie have a daughter, Mrs. Brenda Burge :
Bloomfield Hills, Michigan. Brenda’s children are Satdl
Julie and Jason.

nal

sedawick original cottage, NOW Nichol cottage.

FULLER e GEOR‘

The Fullers first heard about

FISHERS ¢ GEORGIAN B AY absence of black flies when they
up north in the Timmins area.

d, Ohio,  Solomon’s Island which was for
ndinl§ and were lucky to be able to pu

The Fullers are Glenn and Bev
have three children: Gail, Glenn:

In 1955 they took their two weeks vacation and sa Dean DeMattio. Their children
at Deal’s Camp. Over the next five summers they fel my
with the area, and decided to try to buy an island on vit
to build a cottage.

In the five years of vacations they met and be
friends with Reg and Mary McIntosh as well a
John and Robert. In the fall of 1959, the Fishes
to ask Reg’s help and advice on a suitable isla
MclIntoshs recommended one of two islands p .
the French River Mouth. So with this suggestion i
unseen, the Fishers purchased it. got Pe
iba and Leona arrived and found the Ne ol”) =
ane 60. They then proceeded to build a “owl

ey have added and improved in the yeal® : able?

In the last 22 years the Fishers have spent a E,
Pel summers, meeting and making frien wl

ro People for miles around.

© Fisher’s C.B. handle is ‘‘Kookie-T™°

Charlie and Leona Fisher, from Clevelan
first introduced to the Key Harbour area by a frie
He told them of the fabulous fishing and scenery in G™
Bay near Roy Deal’s Camp.

came aot
thei

9?

