# OCR Result for IMG_4382 2023-10-17 12_45_24.HEIC

1982 Catch of red foxes and a wolf.

Left to right Edwin Aalto, Gloria Patenaude, Harold Aalto
with “top hat’’.

2g

=

ae
s

Allen and Coss Lyte with wolf and beaver pelts.
TRAPPERS IN THE AREA

Traplines are owned and trapped each fall and winter in
the area, by Edwin and Harold Aalto, Allen Lyte, Hubert
Patenaude, Fred Stoerig, and some of the Indian families
in the area,

Edwin and Harold Aalto bought Bob Currie’s trapline
in 1960. This trapline takes in roughly north of the Key from
Beaver Creek in a line north to the CNR tracks, near the
Key Junction, down CNR to Cranberry, across Highway

69 to Clear Lake, Grundy to Pakesley, and s
BRN soutl %
River. n tO Key

Hubert Patenaude and Edwin Aalto have w

: 5 orked
covering their two separate traplines. H together

ubert’s trapline ;
roughly Fox Bay, Bustard Islands and French pie eS
area. nd French River Mouth
130

Hubert Patenaude ‘‘The Mad Trapper” and wife Gloria

Edwin Aalto’s overnight trapline cabin.

Allen Lyte’s trapline was formerly owned by Paul ee
and purchased by his father in the 1940’s. This line .
in the area east of Dokis, north on west side of Sand ie
to Pickerel River, east to CNR spurline, south to Key RN
on the west side of Beaver Creek. and

He has two overnight cabins, one on Hoosier ee
one halfway up the spurline and to the east. Allen tra?" y

$ ariel)
area each year, traveling by snowmobile and taking 2
of furs. wer
Os Stoerig’s trapline covers an area approximate)
fe) satan 69, south of Key River. ote
he different types of furs taken are beavel and?
muskrat, mink, fox, fisher, and very few marte!

limited amount of wolves.

the fisher, a very Y

IciOUS a

Left to rj
red f "ght, Hubert P

0)
*, Olter, beaver, |

NUBERT (THE MA

AND H
q

cen was a partne
“Pp Orth Narrow

et
{ng 12 Hunt Cl

e

“ame a Msited Key J

N Wath :
xa family. Bad R

u .

Rona and his wi
Nop “"8uishen

C

Champ On Picker
dentay a Hote] on

*t Arthur

S Countr
