# OCR Result for IMG_4393 2023-10-17 12_45_40.HEIC

Ury in
1€ was

en Mr.
‘ceived

winter
ril and

67. He

James
village
ll but

iess al
- area;
a and
d Key

Ludgate

james Ludgate at this time was th
jogging at Schroeder Mill and Timbe
ship With Herb Thompson Operation
, mill, blacksmith shop, slab and
petween the tracks and Key River on the north sj ‘
CNR. North of the river they built a clerk ae foes
cabin and a house for their personal use.

On the south side of the tracks the company built a
cookery and office, combined later and used as a store, and
eight dwelling buildings for their staff and camp help. One
of these was later used for a school. They also built a stable
and a spurline track into a large lumber storage yard.

The Ludgate mill was also operated by steam power,
(wood-fired boilers). All other hauling in connection with the
logging and mill operation was done by horses. The cutting
or logging camp was about three miles east of the Key. The
logs were hauled to the mill with horses and sleighs in the
winter months. The road they used, called ‘‘Tote Road’’,
was first built to haul supplies from Pakesley for the gangs
working on the log drives on the Key. Ludgate Thompson
like others brought their supplies from Sudbury or Parry
Sound and they maintained this road in serviceable
condition.

Ludgate Thompson Co. built a hanging cable type bridge
over the Little Key River for their operation south of the
river and CNR tracks. This was later changed to a pier type
as it was presumed the cable type had complications. There
also was a foot bridge further east from the slab yard to
where Mitchell’s farm was located. At Ludgate there was
never an official station, only a small building or shelter with
astove and benches located three hundred feet east of the
bridge, southside of the tracks.

In 1925 they sold farmland that had been their log sorting
yard for the mill north of the River. The farmland rights
were sold to David Mitchell, 250 acres, some of it still in
timber.

When the timber ran out in the 20’s, they phased out the
mill and moved it. They sold their buildings and lease to
Charles Harris.

The local lumber companies had a bush road from
Ludgate to Pakesley for winter travel only. The companies

to the north of Ludgate had their own winter road Hon
Beckanon crossing the frozen Key River at approxunate y
where Highway 69 is today. From here this road a ie
CNR north of Portage Lake, on through bush an ae
frozen lakes and portages to the Pickerel River. The wee er
Companies used this winter road for expediency of hau ne
; heir
their many supplies to their camps, especially feed fort
pp
horses. 5

e Ontario manager of
r, and also in partner-
at Ludgate. They built
Sawdust disposal yard

99
STILL RIVER “BEKANONT
(0)
Before Highway 69 came through there was : a u
'Ough road from Britt to Still River to Bekaucr Sa trail
~Udgate. A Mr. Duncan Fletcher owned a far m ill River
lUst north of where ‘‘Deerhorn’’ restaurant 1s at Stl

Village. There also Was a small ‘
Fletcher w

Sundays.

chapel’’ nearby. Mrs.
ould walk the railroad track to church services on
tee Where Victor Roy's Lumber Mill is today, a Mr.
gson ran a small sawmill in the late 20’s and 30’s.
Whether he owned it or not is not known, but it is presumed

one of the Pakesley Lost Channel Companies owned it,
possibly Bruce Playfair.

GRUNDY LAKE PARK
When Highway 69 north to Sudbury was being built in
the 50’s the contractor built a road to reach a gravel supply
pit two miles east of the CPR tracks at Pakesley. With the
Opening of this service road the Department of Lands and
Forest built and opened up one of the first Government-
run tenting and camping parks in this virgin area, at Grundy

Lake. This road, 522, is now complete through to Highway
lb

CURRIE FAMILY
LUDGATE, KEY RIVER, CRANBERRY.
(As told by Wilfred Currie)

Bert Currie and family moved to the north side of Portage
Lake in 1924, where an original Rodgers Bros. outpost camp
had been. Here they built a homestead house and buildings
to farm the acreage and raise cattle. Their homestead area
was occupied by Ministry of Correctional Services’ ‘‘Camp
Dare’’. The Ministry of Natural Resources for Grundy Lake
Park area is also there.

The Curries, in the early days, cleared more land and
worked the homestead on Portage Lake. Bert also had a
logging business and camps for a number of years. This
operation was located where Hurd’s Key River Camp (now
“Key Marina’’) is located. He cleared most of this land and
cut the logs west of there from Camp Dore towards Key
Harbour north of the Key River. Some of the logs were
shipped by rail to destinations in Ontario and the U.S. Some
went by booms down the Key River to Key Harbour then
by barge to a mill at Wiarton. Bert ran an engine in the
summer for Bruce Playfair Pakesley Lumber Company.

In the winter he used the old lumber company’s winter

Leia RS

ge Lake, Photo courtesy of Wilfred

Currie farmstead, Porta

Currie. 141
