# OCR Result for IMG_4338 2023-10-17 12_43_39.HEIC

251 ie) Started
ed COttages
Resort.

NETS Of the
and in 1973.
at their cor

(Mirs. John
Te.

ht Harold
Finn Chan-
yrdays visit
1, Gregory.
Bob’s cor
3 children:
rician, 4?

ne Mart
LIVER

ut in 1
4 Bay

950.

£0

or
ow i sol
F

Ohio:
7 18?
)

).

tothe: ‘touble buying nails locally so he as
“HINTS f

The Henvey Area
cAMP HENRY * HENVEY INLET 19
1926 Bill Henry won some islands
envey Inlet in a poker game. They jg
- » Bill first built one cabin on the
Me Then he started building the
~. 1932 Camp Henry was Officially
_»j outfitters camp, owned and Operated by the H
nore were seven Cottages and a main building
sal and five cottages on the islands close |
“ered to fishermen and hunters (“America
cats and guides for hire.
b Gilbert “Manny”’ Allen was their first employee. He was
guide, mechanic, and handyman, also their camp ange
ation Jaunch captain from 1932 until the camp was sold
The last launch used was the “‘Sea Bee”? formerly Owned
py George Wright. It was a large Partially closed-in boat
ysed to bring the guests from Britt to Camp.

Camp Henry had four Grew inboard guide boats (one was
gamed ‘‘Jessie’’). These launches would tow TOW boats with
guides to the fishing area each morning. The guides then
rowed their customers around the Henvey and surroundine
fishing areas stopping at noon to cook and serve shore lunch.
At the end of the day, all boats would rendezvous at a prear-
ranged spot to be towed back to camp by the launches. The
guides’ wages were $2.50 per day, but if the camp’s boat was
used it was raised to $3.00 per day (not much for a day of
rowing and cooking shore lunch) but sometimes tips were
more than the day’s pay.

Guides at Camp Henry over the years were: “Manny’’
and Bob Allen, Joe Lachance; Joe, Jim, Billy and Lance
Lamore; Gilbert Ambrose and Ernest Lamondin; Leonard,
Dave, Ernest and Lawrence Prisque; Jim and Louise Secord;
lamore; Gilbert Ambroise and Ernest Lamondin; Leonard;
Dave, Ernest and Lawrence Prisque; Jim and Louis Secord;
El Brebant; Henry Robillard: Ernest Ambeau; Joe Laflam;
Richard Sangelais; Louis Longlade; Harold Aalto; Bill
Moody; Arvid; Sam and Francis Lahti, and others. Many
of these men were from Britt and Byng Inlet area.

(Continued on Wright’s page 156, Britt section)

26-1974

Near the Mouth of
ter became “Camp
main island for his
future cainp, :
Opened as 4 tourist

ihe i

enrys.
On the largest
by. The camp
Nn Plan’’) with

CASH BROTHERS  HENVEY, 1947 TO PRESENT
James Cash of Franklinville, New York, and his brother
George Cash first visited the area in 1947.

"EY spent two weeks at a private camp of a friend on
we Deer Lake, situated approximately 30 miles east of
| avey Inlet, They had been planning for several years ice)
, ’ 0 island somewhere on Georgian Bay. On their way
ue they stopped at the Department of Lands & sae
faa Sound and looked over the large choice of a :
lime e0vernment was encouraging people to ee 7
Mout 2 fe brothers picked out a ten acre 15
. ! Henvey Inlet.
fey Were rari this time to meet Fred ee
tary ident and excellent carpenter. They hired Fred to

Pt Cones ce 5 er of 1947.
Freg "struction of their cottage in the diese ee Ca

. law < State
"'° St some. This they managed in New York

and
t at a cares a the train. The Hurd brothers helped
In the sine ot ix boat to their cottage in Henvey.
which they an Te 48 ny homesteaded on their island
gathered all th €d “Baruca - During the winter they had
and had it ee necessary equipment to furnish the cottage
with his tu “tipped to Britt where Edwin Aalto met them
load thes ig and brought the load back. It was such a big
it nearly sank the boat.
note eee knows that has met Fred Sedore, he is a
heath cae and he wouldn’t even put his initials on the
Th at he built SO well in front of the stone fireplace.
ley talked him into at least initialing the top of the
chimney, =
The Cash families have spent many enjoyable holidays
at their island since 1948. James Cash is a lawyer in Franklin-
ville, New York and George Cash is a doctor of medicine
In Olean, New York. They owned the island

jointly until 1976 when they put the island in their children’s
names.

LOST KEY

HURLBUT * HENVEY INLET

The Hurlbut family owns the West half of Lost Key Island
alongside the Fosters on the East half. The island
had been owned by the Cash family for many years prior
to its sale in 1975. Lost Key Island is located on the South
side of Henvey Inlet at the mouth.

The Hurlbuts purchased the island sight unseen, solely
on the advice of Al Clark. Al had been extolling the wonders
of our North Eastern Georgian Bay area, and Bob and Anne
were more than delighted when they first set foot on their
newly acquired property. If anything, Al had understated
the beauties of the island and the general area.

The family spent its first summer on the island in 1976,
camping with canoe tripping friends of former years.
Everyone was relaxing around a fire, the tents having been
put up and the camp squared away, and Bob was
commenting on the quiet beauty and serenity of this remote
spot. The sound of aircraft was heard and, within one hour,
three planes had landed and taxied up to the shore.

The cottage was completed the following year and the
Hurlbuts moved in on the first of August, 1977. Anne, Bob,
and their sons, Andrew and David, were now officially
residents of the Key Harbour area.

LOST KEY
FOSTER * HENVEY INLET

The Foster family are fairly new summer residents of Key
Harbour area.

J. Peter Foster of Toronto purchased ten acres of an
‘sland in 1976 from the Cash family, who wished to dispose
of the island. The island is at the mouth of Henvey Inlet.

The Fosters completed their cottage in 1977 and named

it i ‘Lost Key’.
ee ae Bee and his wife Carol, their daughter
and her husband Rod Thornton, son Charles and his wife

Karon, and daughter, Ellen. They reside in Toronto.

87

