# OCR Result for IMG_4403 2023-10-17 12_46_02.HEIC

elfare

bang
, on
Nitieg

N the
ind’.

and,
Ccts,
, the
and
Teat
also
the
the
me,
450
Ory
tern
it is
yn-
ead
62.

to
om
led

ib-
kis

DEAD ISLAND
KEY HARBOUR, AREA

over the years, there have been very few articles written
zoncernine the history of Dead Island. I do not know if
snyone has ever thoroughly researched the facts that were
“esented in these articles. I do know that I was unable to
ipstantiate many of the stories after nine years of research

research.

j obtained many stories from local families who had heard
hem from their parents and grandparents. These stories
were passed on from generation to generation. From these
yarious SOUTCES, I have compiled the following story of Dead
island. This story may not be completely accurate but it is
as close to the truth as is possible due to the absence of good
records. As with many family stories, they are based on
happenings of the past. Each generation probably elaborated
and exaggerated the original story. Please bear this in mind,
as you read the story.

For generations the local Indians of the area brought their
deceased to Dead Island which is a short distance from the
Mainland. Their burial customs (strange to the white man’s
ways) was to wrap their loved one with ‘their’ personal
belongings in either blankets, furs or sheets of birch bark.
Then their bodies were placed or hung high up in the trees.

Another method of burial was laying of the bodies on the
rocks (as the island had little or no soil) and cover the bodies
with many rocks.

The purpose of these two methods of burial was to keep
the bodies safe from prowling hungry animals. This still did
not keep the sacred burial grounds safe from the wild beast
with two legs and trousers — the white man.

During the early part of the twentieth century, the white
man did not try to comprehend or care about the Indians
and their customs. The Indians in return, did not under-
stand the white man’s customs or values.

Thus the unthinkable act of ransacking Indian graves oc-
curred. Stories have been told that seem to be factual, that
a group of Americans from Chicago came to Dead Island
ina ship. They were looking for interesting items for a side
show for the Chicago ‘‘World’s Fair’’, at the turn of the

century. When they landed on Dead Island, they stripped
the grave sites of their weathered mummified remains and

the buried artifacts. They were loaded into the hold of the

ship and the men returned to Chicago. The Canadian

authorities took no action against these men and indeed
seemed to look the other way. (As far as it is known by this
writer).

ce were told about the pilfering of other Indian Gk
sites near the mouth of the Key River on its north shore an
of a cave on Pine Island. It is not known and there aa
proof whether these men from the U.S. were responsible
for these acts also.

No one knows what happened t
were featured at the World’s Fair.
just before or at the conclusion 0

It is known that the remains were never re

o the Indian remains that
They disappeared either
f the Fair.

turned to Dead

Island. It is pre : :

either dios ae bodies and artifacts were
Michigan. If so
somewhere in C
Lake Michigan.

Neither the Canadian or the American citizens can be
proud of such a despicable act. Certainly the Canadian
authorities at that time were callous and sub-human towards
the Indians. No action was taken, and recorded.

United States citizens as well cannot be proud of a few
of their citizens who were only motivated by greed and had
no consideration of the dead,

Now when Canadian or U.S. citizens anchor their boats
at the government dock at Dead Island, fishing in the weed
bed east of the island, they should take a closer look at this
infamous island surrounded by the blue waters of Georgian
Bay and stop for a moment to remember the past.

“THE VISITORS’’
by Gunild Spiess

An unexpected visit by two local Indians early one Sun-
day morning, while we were building our cottage, brought
into focus in a personal way the historic aspect of the white
man encroaching on Indian territory. It made us realize how
meaningless the white man’s concept of boundaries must
have been to the Indians.

As indicated in this book, the CNR leased property both
north and south of Key River Mouth and for a considerable
distance east. The rest of the land on the south side is Henvey
Indian Reservation. The two Indian visitors told us that they
had grown up in a shed which stood back of our cottage
on land they thought to be Indian lands.

The sorry remains of the shed was still in evidence in 1964.
Obviously it was not clear to the Indians of past generations
that the land west of the widening of the river belonged to
the CNR. Why should we have expected them to under-
stand our concepts of boundaries and legal property rights
when we did not perceive much of their outlook on life. Only
now do we white people grasp some of the fundamental
wisdom of the North American Indian culture.

The rocks, the sun, the wind and the water will be here
a long time after the Indian and white man have come and
gone. That, to our family, is the essential beauty of this
unique corner of the earth. Truly “‘God’s Country’.

Foot Note — A number of Indian family dwellings were
built and used on the south side of the river from the turn
of the century until the 1950’s.

site in Chicago or into Lake
7 there is a part of Canada’s history
hicago, possibly on the sandy bottom of

Ivan Kewakundo.
Key Harbour’s
well-known Indian
guide with a nice
catch of pickerel.
Photo courtesy of
Cy Blais.

