# OCR Result for IMG_4420 2023-10-21 03_30_12.HEIC

Acknowledgements

ock, Nellie Ashawasega, Bill Biggs, H. Ro
on, Len Newton, Margarite Aje
Edward Belanger, Lenard Michayg

I especially wish to thank Bob Rosser for oe
manuscript, Agnes Trott for her typing of the man aioe
and contributing a large amount of information and ph ie
I also wish to offer my gratitude to our daughters, Lin S
Hayes and Pat Mitchell, also Beverely Fuller, Veronica
Spiess and Kay Bellville for their help with typing and Jan
Gregory for proofreading

For all the people that supplied information and photos
for this book, I truly appreciate their time, effort and co-
operation. The following names are only a portion of the
many people contributing: Robert Boudignon, Margaret
Borron, Gordon Borron, A.E. Borron, Jim McIntosh, Reg
and Robert McIntosh, Falconer Gauthier, Irene Newton,
Johnny Mallette, Margaret Yule, Wanda Godin, Isabel
Anderson, Jessie and Allen Lyte, Emily Murray, Emily
Pillgrem, Audrey Loukidelis, Edwin and Harold Aalto,
Arnold Hudson, the late Dave Hudson, Charlie and Leona
Fisher, Bruce Thompson, William Crozier, Wilfred Currie,
Wilmot and David Hurd, Alan Bayley, Archie Moore,
Malcolm D. Richardson, Frank Wies, Jim Gairdner, Peter
Dickie, Art Lahti, Allen E. Silbaugh, George and Francis
Kivinen, Bud McQueen and the late Bob Hunter, Dorothea
Matte, Bruce and Hilda Clark, Elizabeth Downer, Gladys
Hart, Mary Taggart, Bill Stanely, Rudy Vesely, Robert
Schey, Bill Michaud, Marilyn Opatrny, Bill Stahle, Arthur
Neilson, Mae Sirtonski, Alvin H. Gropp, the late Lawrence
Hazzard, Marion McKay, Susan McKay, McKay Family,
Mildred Marrin, Betty Trotter, the late Don Trotter, Robert
(Pat) McIntosh, Ernest Puttock, Ian Forsythe, John and
Josephine Krystia and family, Thomas Alan Mitchell, Jeules
Mazure, Fred and Robert Sedore, Cy Blais, Gunild Spiess,
Joe and Frances Arch, Paul Ruston, Mrs. G. Street, Mary

Morl
Margaret Newt

George Wright, Em
Lamondin, Mrs. Bennett, Bessie McLaughlin, the be

Hector Lamore, Art Niederhumer, Stephen Wohlebey e
photos from original Dave Thomas Collection, H, Klusstie
for drawings, Mark Thomson for map artwork. Lag, a
not least I wish to thank all the family members for sup.
plying their histories of the area.

billarg,
Xander,

I wish to express my gratitude to the many governmental
departments, and other sources for their Co-operation in sup.
plying material and photographs in my research: Depar,.
ment of Railways and Canals, Public Archives Canada —
Carl Vincent and Glenn T. Wright, Ontario Archives —
K.R. McPherson, Canadian National H.Q. Library —
Christopher Andreae and Norm Lowe, Ontario Ministry of
Natural Resources Mines Library Section — Naney
Thurston, Ontario Ministry of Natural Resources Sudbury
— Marvin Smith, Canadian Ministry of Energy, Mines and
Resources — Shayla Doctoroff, Canadian National Library
Services, Ontario Ministry of Culture and Recreation —
Rodger Nickerson, Indian and Northern Affairs — Evelyn
Noel, The Union of Ontario Indians — Paul Williams, Nellie
Ashawasega — Henvey Inlet Band of Ojibways, National
Museums of Canada — Gordon M. Day, Transport Canada
Parry Sound — J.D. Kennedy and staff, Algonquin
Regional Library Parry Sound — Director R.A. Smith,
Parry Sound Public Library, North Star, Parry Sound —
G. Barr, Skillings Mining Review, Duluth Minn, Ontario
Hydro, Ministry of Natural Resources - Information Se
tion - Ken Robertson, The Ontario Geographic Names
Board - Michael B. Smart.

SSS +>:

We hope you Beevers En d
Joye ceadip
Bay pipe! t's People. As OU one and

Boe would 4ay — A fifa
Bless, 4

The material in this book
the written permission

oe) eNottheostrry Georgian
only Fohnny Mallett. “Tie

of the old “Shiga Hat’ and “God

" Produced in
of the publisher. 7 Way or form without

ee as a

|
:
