# OCR Result for IMG_4411 2023-10-18 18_56_06.HEIC

ne little
o avoid
and the
) rough
Tr their
ontain-
nied by
before
sound.
zugeen
ry few
shiver
of the
yn this
k and

anged
is was
slands
e gale
jn the
en [Oo
vould

p.A- Tinkus, one of the two su

: rvivors, h HO
ture of the last few minutes y das Tell a vivid pic:

aboard the doomed v
The aft gangway, he lie ed vessel.

: ing fr
to the main deck was j & Irom the promenade

’ | = Ay could ge fe OTF dow al A ae tc h

of the vessel this mass would wrj cae
while the waves broke cee S chee
in the meantime, had broken loose and at es haa
were thrown from one side of the main deck Te 2
The cabin was already broken in at several points ce al
the craft floated. At last about 11:30 p.m. she ok a
at the head and went down stern first, the Age Sma
off and the boats floating off as she did so fee
Tinkis was in one of the wooden life boats when the Asia
made her final plunge but it was quickly swamped. ‘‘As she
was about to sink’’ he recalled, ‘‘I sprang over and swam
for the Captain’s metal lifeboat.’? ‘‘There were great
combers On every wave, and these, loaded with floating
debris, broke over my head every time I came up on the
crest. My hands and head were cut and bleeding, but I
reached the lifeboat and managed to clamber in. We were
driving fast before the sea and soon lost sight of wreckage
and other boats as well.”’

Christine Morrison, a young girl, the other survivor of
the wreck, jumped as the deck became awash. Caught by
a wave, she was carried close to the Captain’s boat and was
hauled in by the mate who was her cousin. At one time there
were more than twenty people in the boat but it was
repeatedly upset and after each overturn there were few sur-
vivors. When dusk came there were only six left alive, but
there was also the body of a young French Canadian deck
hand who had died an hour earlier.

Night was coming on. The wind had lessened in violence
but the sea was still high. Suddenly there was a flash in the
distance which was recognized as Byng Inlet light. Led by
the mate, those in the boat began singing the old revival
hymn ‘‘Pull for the Shore, Sailor.’? But there were no Oars
and the boat was half full of water and darkness was all
about. Voices grew feeble and the song died out. Later they
sang together ‘“‘In the Sweet By-and-By.”’

We have a record of those who were in the boat at this
time. In addition to Tinkis and the young girl, those still
Savage, mate McDonald, a man

named Little and a man from Gore Bay named McAlpine.
One by one these others succumbed to ie exposure and
shock of the day. McAlpine died at eight 0 clock, Little went
next and the mate who had led the singing died at ae
Sometime after midnight the Captain seemed to be ne
asleep, and when Tinkis shook him he ua ae
... ’Il be up in a minute.’’ A wave struck the boa aS
moment and when Tinkis looked again the Captain

dead. i

The boat was half full of water but as each oO ee
placed the body under the seats to Breen Lo a
washed out. For the two that were left there @ sean
sleep or rest. To give way tO the almost 2 a as
drowsiness meant death. Probably it was their y

living were Captain

Bei ter eo ‘ life where strong men have given
he a nie un . twenty years of age. All through
whee’ oa y night the boat drifted, they knew not
soe at daylight land was in sight, one of the in-
ene islands on the eastern shore of Georgian Bay.
two were so exhausted that they a ae ete
: arcely stand. It was
now Friday and neither had had any food or rest for over
thirty hours. All that day and the night that followed they
remained where they had landed, threatened with star-
vation unless help came.

On Saturday morning about eleven o’clock a sail ap-
peared. By this time both were delirious. Tinkis was able
to attract attention by raising his coat on a pole and the small
sailboat, piloted by an Indian, drew to shore.

He had food with him, fat pork and ‘‘choke dog,’’ which
the two survivors must have considered the most welcome
meal of their lives. In return for Tinkis’ gold watch the
Indian agreed to take them to Parry Sound, but when within
two miles of that place he decided to camp for the night,
so that not until Sunday morning was their safety known.
Rumors of the disaster had reached Parry Sound on Satur-
day and a tug had been sent out which actually passed the
Indian’s boat. But, as the two survivors were lying in the
bottom, they were not seen.

Tinkis lived until 1910 residing at Manitowaning and Little
Current. Miss Morrison, who in 1896 became Mrs. Albert
Fleming, died in the summer of 1937, fifty-five years after
the terrifying experience through which she had passed on
the stormy waters of Georgian Bay.

The loss of the “‘Asia’’, the most costly in lives of any wreck
in the history of Lake Huron, made lasting impressions on
the country round about, and year by year newspapers
published about the Bay, even to the present, recall the story
of the wild storm of 1882. It also produced one of the ballads
of Lake Huron, written by some unknown resident of the
Georgian Bay district and printed in a local newspaper soon
after the tragedy.

It has been printed and believed by many that the “‘Asia”’
sank anywhere from Cabot Head to Bustard Islands in the
Georgian Bay, but as the ““Asia’’ left Owen Sound at 4:00
a.m. and floundered at 11:30 a.m. the same day, the vessel
could not possibly have reached anywhere near the Bustard
Islands in seven and a half hours.

The commercial fishermen in the Pointe Au-Baril area
have known the presence of a wreck resting in 90 feet of
water which they have always believed to be that of the Asia.
As the storm was blowing from the southeast and the master
of the Asia was unable to keep the ship out of the trough
of the sea, it is quite probable that the ship ran towards the
east or Parry Sound shore, which would be about twenty

miles off course.

Courtesy of The Parry Sound Public Library.

By Fred Landon, Lake Huron No. 17110,

Copy given to the author by Allen Lyte from the late Dave Hudson.

159

