# OCR Result for IMG_4358 2023-10-17 12_44_29.HEIC

0-1957.
ter

it the age
y for the
jobs. In
al fishing

nd Mrs.
west side
> the year
“om the

nmercial
summer
pairs for
ed build
ding °

od by al

2 wintel

Dave Hudson
Key Harbour, 1913-1977

gson Was @ ae enol ahd summerti
_ Bu . . He fir 1
at Hl rey Harbour St Came to Key Harbour a¢

Ing boats
€nt to the
aVigational
he Customs

7
- customs officer to Process incom
“8008 of coal. His first appointm
‘pit a May 5, 1913. Dave stayed each n
“® 1916. Each summer he lived jn _

| 0 a slightly back and east of Pete My

to
‘g ame!

TTay?

jes ing is now McKay’s cottage.) oe
) ails

i; ue 17-18 he was customs officer at Nobel, |

"turned to Key Harbour for the sum
ay the winter months he worked j
Babe

i, Fee. After 1924, he returned to work

Mer months
n the Parry

Y soffi : : full time in
| a ind. He retired in 1953. In the summers of these

. Hudson family returned to Key Harbour for their
, Dave and his family became well-known and
over the years in the community.
i? years Dave Hudson was not customs officer at the
1 rand after he retired, a relief officer ran the Office.
ithese officers was Don MacFarland of Parry Sound.
yer his retirement, Dave came back to Key Harbour and
bcd the Costello cottage on the riverbank from Cos
|. He improved it with a verandah and put on siding.
|. nghis family spent many vacations there. Later he sold
‘.ottage back to the Lytes as his son, Arnold, built close
i. Dave then stayed with Arnold and his wife Madeline
eat years when with poor health and advancing age,
/jasunable to come to the Key.
DAVE HUDSON’S FAMILY
| Dive's father, Robert, came to Parry Sound in 1877 from
Province of Quebec, northeast of Ottawa. He married
/y McFarland in 1879. Mary was born near Cobourg and
atio Carling Township in 1865 when she was nine years
Robert and Mary Hudson’s family were Harold, Elsie,
‘vd, John, Roy and Norton.
| bveHudson, born in Parry Sound in 1887, died in 1979
‘9. In 1913 he married Etta Keiven daughter of James
“lho came to Parry Sound from Paisley, Scotland e
His wife Agnes (nee Carruthers) was born in Christie
| “bin 1863. Dave and Etta had one son Arnold and
ae Reta (Mrs. Victor Benvie).
4 Yorked on the building of the CNR 2
"1907-8. He then was employed by the

"until 1912 when he joined the custo
|’ $0und,

orth of Parry

CNR express
ms office in

ay ae

H ‘ 4 * =

fp | p

ie Mrs.
Cus : ean

wy, !0m Building, CNR Boarding hous é.

S Store & W. Stah
e

Photos courtesy ©

We
ow

oes

S

Key Harbo wee Ty
Hae ei Sa house boilers, 1913, Left Dave Hudson

reman. — Photo courtesy of A. Hudson.
ARNOLD HUDSON FAMILY

dson married Madeline (nee Vigrass) in 1940
a children: Patricia, Robert and Tone
coe Ga ae Navy during the war. After
Neca an a business in Toronto until his

He remembers when he worked for Ed Groves in Parry
Sound. He helped weld flanges on Jitney car wheels for Reg
McIntosh, when Reg first used rubber tired wheels on the
rear of the car pulling the Jitney train.

Arnold and Madeline spend: all summer at their lovely
cottage at Key Harbour where they have a fine garden.

Arnold Hu

Arnold Hudson with sturg

Se rT 1 Watrous, Mrs.
: ay Le te Wm. Fritchie, 1
’ oup: y, Wm.
Deer huntine re Mrs. Ed Hagga) 107
Yay
watrous,
