# OCR Result for IMG_4350 2023-10-17 12_44_08.HEIC

Sduceg : pf car and train leaving for Key Junction,
the ling jsunusual transportation system was Started by Arthur
1OnN ang | opp sometime between 1910-1918, with a Jigger for his the passengers
TS Were jp It was rae oe lea 907 Model T Ford engine. Ma fe our on the platform to flag it down at the Junction.
S Were Joc next vehicle a ae as a Converted car or truck en Ve Opatrny remembers as a child that the
Places. hi jo run on the rails. 1s vehicle pulled a number of Woe 7 € dirty from the long trip. Its old plush seats
Ted the | ses which were small, flat cars. These cars were Dry a Shek ont mouldy sardine sandwich on the win-
AS the | ay sed by railway sectionmen to haul ties, rails and other Sis» Such memories still stay with a person.
| a the Jol A Key Harbour Lodge guest fell off the jitney car and
ae was seriously hurt j i i i
re . \sthere was no road into the area, this service became in the cake . ee PeTore the service was discontinued
jevesential for Key Harbour and surrounding residents )
jaiommercial fishermen. When medical care was needed

ya the fastest, sometimes only, way to get out to the
athe railroad, other than walking. From Key Junction

ecould reach Parry Sound or Sudbury fairly quickly for

|
i
fatment.

|

Tis service concession and equipment was purchased
/tArthur Gropp by C.H. Gauthier in 1921. At this time
jtthie obtained the concession from the CNR to keep
| ‘Wice of freight running to Key Junction and in turn
d il this freight the CNR Capreol division would keep

| "ks to the Harbour in serviceable condition.
| Mh Cauthier added a lot of equipment to the service and

jlo ill the insurance required, hiring different men to
For this investment Mr. Gauthier paid a flat yearly
4 those Tunning the service to haul his fish ae
k Paid so much per 100 pounds to the operators of the
"Ome

thy O those Operating the Jitney over the ye 30-375
eng PP 1912-32: Lawrence Hazzard, eee
Nuc, Melntosh, 1937-44; Bob Currie and J oan oo
Aya MAY Malllette, 1946-52; Robert (Pat) McIntosh,
lhe "Was discontinued in July 1958.

ne tla : ; he old
[ag - portation service got its sale ee was
I tickaae aS they were called, that ran it then.

‘|

‘hy
ars were;

ed

‘ ‘Toonal-

pi )

* Moly , -Y the customers, Key Harbour s

fy, ght ‘on was
Pai y ot sery; Junctio

A thes, 7 VICe goi th from Key €
rh, ley 80ing sou strain was t

Mango. Pickers Midnight Run’’. Thi

en
R to. Wh
Nada run from Vancouver to Toron

ARTHUR GROPP e KEY HARBOUR 1910-1932

Arthur Gropp was the originator of the Jitney service bet-
ween Key Junction and Key Harbour. ;

_ The Gropp family came from the Penetanguishene area.
Arthur had six brothers: J ohn, Bill, Edward, Amil, Charlie
and Harry. And one sister named Maude.

Arthur came to Key Harbour sometime after 1910. He
worked for and ran a small sawmill at the Harbour for the
C.M. Cane Co., of Toronto. They also loaded logs on flat
cars for shipping to Toronto.

Gropp, until he retired, lived north of the tracks in a house
that had formerly been a logging camp building. Then Pete

ht it.

aes ae the Jigger type service for his personal use,

hed out to a commercial service catering to US.
ue ye fish n and campers visiting the area

hunters, lisherme

a Iso transported fresh fish to the Junc-
SO ae Anecal fishermen who would ship
tion £1 se a d U.S. markets. On return trips he
them to CU Bader and their supplies and local
would aa a Scrat he made fish boxes and ce
residents. fish when required. He also had a blacksmit
and iced the nal many hardware and motor repairs. Arthur
shop where he di industrious man with many skills.
Gropp was 4 very mpany mill and boathouse was located

The C.M. Cane Co Agnes Trott’s dock is today. This
at Key Ce ae in the storm of Hurricane Hazel
building was

in ne eh sold his Jitney servi
Arthu

ce to C.H. Gauthier
99

