# OCR Result for IMG_4320 2023-10-17 12_42_59.HEIC

Ur,

din 194) Visite
abin on AN islang
nual visits Unt)
bought the Pro.

y improvemeni
nd comfortable
>getable garden,
d to sell the cot:
occasional visi
f 1981.

nd Robert Sir
> cottage.

30UR
the 1930's." :
re doctor SP

t, only ae
seurn, and

ith

lovely home and cottage
the original log cottage,
Herb and his wife lived

there €ach
to poor health, he sold t

he place and

Summer until 1969, Due 19 the Key

ANDERSONS e KEY HARBOUR

Tson and his wife Shirley (nee Haas) came first
y (O visit their friends Leo and Helen Rozesky in

John Ande

Sound area, where they were cl MOved to the Parry 1960. They bought the island in front of Leo’s in 1961 and

Fer died shorly cae Close to road transportation. built a “Panabode’’ Cottage in August 1962. Edwin Aalto
: MOving there in 1970, and John erected the cottage
Bill Stanley of Clevela :

nd now Owns
and property.

ES “THE STANLEY CUP”
William H. Stanley e Key Harbour 1937 To Present

After spending many enjoyable vacati ith hi
and family at the Old Nickel Plate Cash see
chased the Herb Smith Property and buildi
Aalto’s Isle in 1969. The Stanleys spend a lot
mer months on vacation at their cottage.
The family consists of William H. Stanley, his wife Ann,

children: Margaret, J effrey, Susann and John. The Stanleys
reside in Cleveland.

Bill Stanley recalls an experience
tioning at Nickel Plate Cam
Stanley brought a friend and his wife up for a vacation.
While there, his friend had a heart attack. Mr. Stanley
managed to lift and carry his friend, who was a heavy per-
son, to his boat and took him up the Key to Ludgate. He
finally got him to the waiting room and flagged down the

train. His friend managed to get to his home in Cleveland
and survived the attack.

Stanley pur-
ngs back of
of the sum-

his father had while vaca-
Pp. During the war years Mr.

ROZESKY ¢ KEY HARBOUR, 1959-1979

Leo and Helen Rozesky, from Buffalo, visited and enjoyed
Camp Henry for many years. When Harold and Mary Aalto
opened Aalto’s Isle, at Key Harbour, Leo and Helen started
to visit Aalto’s Isle.

In 1959, they bought Lot PA1 west of Aalto’s Isle and
built their cottage there. They built additions to the other
small cottage on the lot in 1960. cS

The Rozeskys retired and moved to Miami Beach. Leo
Passed away in February 1979 and Helen sold the property
to Bill and Lea Campbell. :

Leo Rozesky was well known by his Key ee x ve
for the many jokes he played on them. Leo 5 200 oe cs
Harold Aalto remembers one of his favorite tee : A

Leo entered a cottage or home he would reach ae ee
door frame and wipe his finger along to check for ae ae
he would stand shaking his head, but saying nothing.
Usually embarrassed Leo’s host to no end. aS Tick.

The best choreboy Harold ever had at his Bee ur)
Named ‘‘Slag-pile’’ by Leo. If he wanted ea When Leo
he used the German expression ““mach aes feerned (and
Tan up his little red flag at his cottage, all col
many were) knew it was ‘‘cocktail hour. hbours on the

In the late summer Leo would call his ethene no
CB and ask them if they would like fortes piles slightly
Need to pick them, just bring a shovel for

Used, left by Mrs, Bear.

the Smith buildings

GERMAIN ISLAND ¢ KEY HARBOUR

On the southeast side, near t

9

remains of a rock blast. This was first drilled with a very
large drill at least 3-4 inches across and then blasted. It must

WALKER e KEY HARBOUR, 1959 TO PRESENT

Thomas Walker and his wife Kerttu live in Azilda. They
have two children; Douglas and Debra.

Mr. Walker first visited the area in the fall of 1958. In
1959 they purchased their cottage from Mr. S.W. Jackson
of Ohio. The cottage is situated on the north half of Germain
Island, with the Nickel Plate Camp on the south half. Pat
McIntosh erected the original camp. Tom jis a gifted
wood-carver.

ARCH e KEY HARBOUR, 1942 TO PRESENT

Joe Arch first visited the Key in 1930. At that time he
spent a winter with his uncle and aunt, Mr. and Mrs. Leo
Michaud, on their island.

In 1942 the Arches started going to the Key asa family.
Their son, Richard, stayed with the Michauds every sum-
mer until he joined the Navy. The Arches first built a small
cottage on the point of Michaud’s Island, across from Bob
Schey’s. When Mrs. Michaud sold the camp to Harold and
Mary Aalto, the Arches lost the use of the cottage.

With this turn of events they decided to build another cot-
tage on their own island. Richard took his parents to see
a special island that he had found and liked while spending
his summers there. This island was located north of

Michaud’s camp across from Germain Island. Joe and wife
Frances liked the island and were able to purchase it in 1957.

In 1958 they had Pat McIntosh build their cottage for
them. Joe and Frances spend their summers at their island
with their grandchildren; Donald and Lynise Arch. Richard
and his family come up in August for two or three weeks
to pick up their children. Donald Arch Spent a great many
of his summers, until 1979, at the Key.

69

