# OCR Result for IMG_4306 2023-10-17 12_42_31.HEIC

tee a -came to the area in the late fall

Ollage,

vanada Glaz,
lela had the
la (Babs), bor
rn 1924. Fray
‘ley (nee Smiiti
Bill, wife Li

are: June (Mr
rifer (Mrs. Re

967
onto area a

comprisilé :
cottage

“surgeon from Toronto has to

DR. H.M. BOWEN
(As told by Alan M. Bayly)

. W. Ly
Dr. Bowen (an eye, ear, nose and throat specialist and

be truly one of the Ke
Harbour area pioneer cottagers. : :

‘By what records are available, he came to the area with
his father to hunt about 1900 or possibly earlier camping
in, various locations - from Byng Inlet to Key Harbour

The Doctor with his associates (brother George he
brother-in-law, John Sears, and Emmy (Bobby) Roberston)
for duck and deer hunting.
George Bowen kept a ‘‘Duck Hunters Log” beginning in
1917. It was very difficult to get to Key Harbour in those
days, as recorded in his log. The following is an excerpt
telling how the above party arrived at Key Harbour in 1917.

1917
Duck Hunters Log

Oct. 26th 10 p.m. Left Toronto on C.P.R. Jor Byng Inlet.
Saturday Oct. 27th, 4:57 a.m. arrived at Byng Inlet Station
Railway Fare - $8.50.

Oct. 27th - Waited at Station until 1:00 p.m. for teams.
Arrived in river 2:40 p.m. - left Byng Inlet village 3:30 -
Arrived Lamondin Point 6:00 p.m. struck camp - Rain all
night - Wind E. Shifted to West & N.W. in night finally
settling in west gale.

Sunday Oct. 28th - Left Lamondin Point 1:00 p.m. Rowed
two miles against west gale - camped on island #249 for night
Monday Oct. 29th - wind changed to E. and N.E. left Island

#249 9:30 - Arrived at Key Harbour about I p.m. Left Key

Harbour 2:30 arrived at island 4:00 p.m. Rain all day - N.E.
Gale and Rain all night - Snow Storm
Tuesday 30th Moved camp to better location on same island
KG9310 Finally arrived at destination.

cz

oe = rae

Dr. H.M. Bowen 1933, photo Alan Bayly

he

In 1920 Dr. William Curzon and Harry Chris)
the hunting party, and a few years later Dr. Rut
was added. They camped each fall in the area un
decided in 1927 to have a cabin built on the mainland n
the entrance to the East Branch of the Pickerel. G
Moore, who lived nearby on Dokis Island built the
from old barn lumber. ee

In the 1960’s and 70’s before Dr. Bowens death i ce
he was accompanied by Jack Candler and his friend 6
They were the first customers each spring for ice at Anges
Store, and the last customers in the fall, as Dr. Bowen
preferred to come to his cottage when it was quiet in the
area.

The property is now owned by Alan M. Bayly and his wife
Helen, niece of Dr. Bowen.

CHARLIE MOORE, PIONEER ®° FRENCH RIVER
MOUTH ¢ KEY HARBOUR

Charlie Moore was born and raised at French River
Mouth. His parents were one of the early settlers at
Coponaning in the late 1800’s.

Later, Charlie met and married Mary Sinclair who came
here from Scotland. When the mill was being phased out,
1912-1918, he moved his family to the west side of Dokis
Channel. Here he built a homestead. This house and
building burned down in the 1920’s. He rebuilt a two story
house on the eastside of Dokis, north end. This house also
burned down and the cottage in use today was built in 1933.

During World War I and years, following, Charlie Moore
was the postman carrier of mail in the district. By dog sled
in winter months, and by boat or walking in the summer.
He also was a commercial fisherman, a fishing and hunting
guide, trapper, carpenter, cottage builder and caretaker of
properties in the area.

Mrs. Moore was well known for her knowledge of herbs
and natural medicinal remedies. She helped many families
in the area to recover from serious illnesses. Mrs. Moore
was also well known as a marvelous baker of blueberry pies
and muffins.

Charlie used small portable buildings in the winter months
to stay overnight while on his trapline. He took these from
place to place on a pointer boat before freeze up.

To get out to the railroad in fall or winter the family would
walk up the west side of Sand Bay then east about four miles
to the spurline track, thence to Key Junction.

The Moores had eight children, David, Charles, Archie,
Hugh, Elizabeth, Flora, Beatrice and Colin.

Charlie and Mary Moore and family were certainly one
of the original pioneer families in Key Harbour area. Charlie
died in 1974, and Mrs. Moore in March in 1981 at the age
of 90,

Son Archie and his family visit the cottage many times
each summer. Archie cherishes his father’s ancient lever
action rifle, which Charlie used over the many years on his
trap line and to obtain meat for the table. The rifle still has
the stock he made for it. It shoots true and is in use today.

The above interesting pioneer story was told to this writer in September 1981, by Charlie Moore's
son Archie Moore and approved.

