# OCR Result for IMG_4354 2023-10-17 12_44_17.HEIC

assenger
he sold
He also
eS and
- gas to
at the

90, 45
me
tform,
unload

ng tug
n Bay
mp up
e area

i

|

‘liye, U8ESt Source of import iron ore, and

(ith |

1 yy10OSE MOUNTAIN MINES

Fig! World

Hy, Dr
Nay, Oduceg

ij

il

‘
i

|
3

i

ie core ehe years especially while y,
yl! st Pas a busy train schedule to ine

ft inere men were On call hight and day ¢

1/j0!- yer, while the service operated, There w

eco 3, that came In at 12:40 a.m.; numb aS One
i ye ymber =? od train at 12 noon: & 4 cam
pv :4 mIXe ’ another call
750M” . 1 from Parry Sound to Sudbury a . the
wig oe Sudbury at 5:30 p.m, There Was ge ou
) * pack i trips a day for passengers comin only
i” eof oe 80in
120°, working at Key Harbour the Malllette family liy
ye ound in Mrs. Hazzard’s old store building by if
1 al e
1 sltettes had six children: Johnny Jr. Gorda,
| i : Helen, Michael and Susan, Johnny and Gordes
ie gchool for two years at MacLeod’s Camp Schoo]
Av audrey MacLeod) and the rest Of their years at
ca Key Harbour School, built across from K oy
F jput Lodge: The rest of the family went to School in

Anetta

n Johnny gave UP Operating the Jitney Service in
a te worked one year in Ottawa, then Moved back to
| inlet and worked some for Wright’s Marina.

; hat and Mary retired to their home in Byng Inlet after
{damaged his back at work, and now is on a disability

yl:
ihe

sion. ; :
ny has a C.B. hobby of listening and helping folks

no are in trouble. He is well known in the area as
er Time’ or “ lic-loc’* on the © Be

a

i
|

W

|
i
|
|

oat

i Me dock * Key Harbour. Photo courtesy A. Lahti.
|

IRON ORE

i _ Ore, taken from Skillings’ Mining Review De
oe Countries are listed as supplying iron ore to te
ty ST0ss tons, the largest supplier. Canada,

States durj j cla, SUP
S during 1954, with Venezu which

Fi : the US, was
shipped 3,536,118 gross tons to Peru, a

n third

“Weomer to the iron ore source lists, was !

221,576 tons.

: e 1979
Ountain mine was closed in ae ens
“glut”? on the iron market. In rece?

i
. [lets
580-650 thousand tons of iron P*

: ROBERT “PAT” McINTOSH
S told to the author b
y Pat McIntosh
wie ee took over the J itney service from Johnny
ite in , Maintained and o erated it until t i

was discontinued in 1958, : ee
While at Key Harbour, Pat built a new house just north
of the tracks, for Mr, Gauthier’s Jitney operators to live
in. This house was later purchased by Coss Lyte. Allen Lyte
nOw owns it.

With completion of Highway 69 across the Key River near
Ludgate and the deterioration of the Spurline tracks,

_ reduction in passenger service, and a great deal of the fish

were being shipped by fast refrigeration trucks from Britt,
the service runs were cut and finally discontinued. George
Trott and two local cottagers, Morville Grieves and Bob
Gourlie, made the last mail run with the Jitney to Key
Junction in the fall of 1958. On the return trip they had to
wait half an hour for a big moose to move off the track.
Before the Jitney service was discontinued, Pat obtained
a large lot across the river from Key Harbour Lodge. In 1958
Pat and his brother Gordon built a lovely new home for Pat
and his wife Ruth, also a small cottage, gas and propane

enclosure, docks and a large combined workshop and boat

e building. :
ea McIntosh came to the Harbour early each Spring over

a °

Meaford. -.] fichine for a few years before
ercial fishing for a lew y
Pat did some ee are He fished locally out of the

taking on the Jitney Lahti camp south of Rodgers Island.

id
old ee er side of the river, he operated the Esso
While on

ice similar to what J ohnny
dealership a a rae ae he continued with this
va us es iceaned cottages for summer eee
business, and ae iJding of cottages. Pat aureus ae
did oe ae with his boats from Highway
amount ol Ir

