# OCR Result for IMG_4334 2023-10-17 12_43_32.HEIC

Ho, : fall for safety. One
x y in theta : year they lost Soop
a hig ohn nee a Leo’s boat storage bullae” ‘
xe ‘Ng burned down. Leo made an outboard boat for there thal
Ang | bes wider ang ae ereevortny. than their Other bo =
a without his friendship and help it Would have We ats,

cult for them to maintain their i Most

giffl camp,

“A Trip to Remember”?

one experience Marilyn had at the age of
never forget. It was a trip for lumber to bui
audy or guest house on the other island. T
yiclntosh saw mill at French River Mout}
Leo was to have taken her father and herself, and t
F another boat for the lumber and material. Due to Unfors,
| circumstances, he could not go, so Billy Michaud was elected
i jo go in his place.
' twas a beautiful day, the weather was fine. They reached
| Mclntosh’s mill without any trouble and loaded the lumber
| But, by the time they reached the outer channel of the French
| River mouth, the weather and the wind had drastically
© changed for the worse. (As in this area the weather wil] do.)
) Part way back to Dead Island, the motor failed, due it seems
Many | ) todirty gas not filtered properly. This left them adrift with
tbour © two boats in a rough sea,
» Marilyn remembers it vividly and will never forget the

twelve she will
Id Dr, Booth’s

hey went to the
BY

‘they § experience as the high waves pounded the boat and came
ke on § in, In her pocket she had a candy sucker, called either
it. By F “Lucky Charm”’ or ‘‘Good Luck”. She clutched this good
vould a luck piece and prayed every time a wave crested. Marilyn
| vas a strong excellent swimmer and a fearless girl for her
plies | age, but she remembers being too scared to move as they
ction § drifted ever closer to the Shirtail shoals.
§ not ; All through this rough and dangerous time, Bill had taken
ntine i the carburetor apart, blowing in it to clean it, He was finally

| Successful and managed to get it back on the motor and the
n the 4 motor going just before they reached the shoals.
| Inthe meantime at Key Harbour Leo Michaud had also
ceso | N0ticed the change in the weather. It was getting late and
| ‘he Booths weren’t back. As he started out to look for them,
with 4 they managed to make it safely to the Harbour.
® Mrs. Booth and her youngest daughter Elizabeth, were
osed f %thafraid of the water and could not swim. Elizabeth was
| p ch younger than Marilyn. She read a lot and helped her
PF “other with the household chores and canning.
| Mts. Booth seldom left the island and really did not enjoy
: ue island and its isolation too well. In so remote a location
' “ley had few visitors through the summer, friends of Dr.
p Pooth from the University. But she did enjoy the many
4 ids, flowers and her garden. With her binoculars she kept
® "tch, ang made a log of all the different types of boats
of $the ship channel close by. She also did a lot oe ste
; ha berries and fruits growing on the south SI
. i the’
Ken ee lay, icy enjoyed see cae
Ein ate Mountains to the northwest, an othe jorthern
B sk of. ‘t they would watch the wonders ny ee
p be, € aurora borealis or ‘‘northern lights”,

nso Vividly from the Key.

Leo Michaud, Dr, Booth seated, having shore lunch.

Another great event for Marilyn Booth was when Pete
Murray got in a new Supply of ‘‘bologna’’, which she felt
was more cereal than meat, but oh how good it tasted for
a change. When they made their trip for mail, she was
allowed one soda pop and one candy bar, which she gave
great thought to for her choice.

Dr. Booth had many hobbies. One was stamp collecting.
Pete Murray helped him greatly with new Canadian issues
of the time. He also was a geologist. Armed with rock
hammers, he and Marilyn spent days searching on the island
for “‘crystal’’ rock formations from which they amassed a
large collection. This Key Harbour rock collection is now
on display in Cleveland’s Case Western Reserve University.

Dr. Harold Simmons Booth was a brilliant man in his
many scientific fields, but still humble. His pleasures came
from the small things in life. He would be delighted to find
a milkweed plant covered with the exquisite and fragile
Monarch butterflies, also birds and flowers, all captured on
film. The scholarships given in his name added to his joy
of living.

Marilyn was an outdoor girl, the adventuresome one of
the family. She was a very strong swimmer. She even swam
part way to the Harbour from their cottage, island by island,
with her father along in a boat for her safety. In one wide
stretch, she became too cold and asked to be taken into the
boat. She loved to row her ten-foot dingy. One time, at
age twelve, she rowed into the Harbour after straying a little,
but she came back the regular route. This was quite a feat
for a young girl and she remembers being very tired when
she reached their cottage.

Marilyn remembers playing on the large old timbers that
washed ashore on their island from the coal dock.

On a fishing trip with Leo Michaud to Henvey Inlet, they
visited a white-washed Indian home, where a very old Indian
and his shy wife lived. While there they purchased some
maple sugar candy.

She recalls so well the Indians that came in small sailboats,
with bright red sails to visit them and others in the area,
selling their variety of wares. They came from as far away
as Manitoulin Island.

In the period of WW II, with its shortage of gas, coupled
with the Doctor’s involvement with nuclear energy at
Oakridge, Tenn., they did not visit the island for a few years.
In the period of the 40’s their beautiful island of virgin trees
was burned completely over one fall. The exact year is
(Continued on Key Junction page 134)

83

