# OCR Result for IMG_4405 2023-10-17 12_46_14.HEIC

5 a small f
apout 187 rame §
x was He ge oe ue put Onthe north — following cl
5 ered, as’ Soe ee Oe allbridge i Tae ee te
me one Bes mill school, This es batt a trail the mail was ae (eae 2 nee ae
yntil the tee » 4 Miss Armstrong, wi Parry Soun ey ee
sompany boarding house in Byag lalees saved’ at a lumber south, the Shere ee ee a ati
while skating home from a church meet} outh was drowned after 4 day’ Se ee Ta ae
village late in the fall of 1883 oe: night raNene ae ls ee .
ge Hate in : g the next day to thei i j
after this tragedy the school w points, maki 2 eee
o September 1886 the children from
. a shore attended SS. No. 1 Wallbridge on the south
ore. They crossed on the ice in winter and on a log boom
across the river at the island in the summer.
In 1880 a new and larger mill was built on the north shore
. ose 10 the present site of Britt. It went by the name of
urton’s Mill. the foundation and dock piles are all that

mill

ecaulse of a slackening in lu i 24

brats of the difficulty of SU patuy
isolated @ place. In those days this was x ae
civilization with no rail connections Piste
prought 1m by boat from Collingwood in he ae
fnough was stocked in warehouses to last for te ganar

often supplies were low in ‘ :
of navigation was eagerly ee a opening remain today. This mill became the centre of a new and
: = ‘ “ . During the thrivi i : f
yinter, COMM oe riving village having com
forest trail which ran from Riis ee only byarough Mr, Peter Potvin, De eee et a ch, and store.
yng Inlet south to ParrySound, —_as a shrewd business man and a scho ees 1S ences :
ol promoter. In

Left centre — Church of Holy
Family on north shore of the
Magnetawan. This was the
original location near Begin’s
store. Moved later to present
site.

Centre - Begin’s store

Coal docks and ship.
Britt

Top left. Gulf Oil tanks
dismantled in 1980 as Imperial
Oil (Esso) shutdown in 1978-79.
Centre — Begin’s store and
trailer park.

Back of trailer park and left of
Gulf road is Roman Catholic
Church cemetery.

Photos courtesy of Stephen
Wohleber obtained from Dave
Thomas’ collection.

eee . é
= pene a
3 asi = —— <a
