# OCR Result for IMG_4367 2023-10-17 12_44_46.HEIC

wedding with
Junction, to cate

Johnny had left to € a :
at Key Junction had jeft for tne © top for passengers:

proper lanterns, 4 signal for et sine staine G0
Then, froma signal Ree the te rytes then
the engineer pulle out Wl ae hen
ae call Johnny on the phone to come oe ae el
at midnight. Early next morning, Coss a ae bul ane
by boat up the river to catch a train at us ane ee
plan was foiled by the river being frozen ovel < ead
near where the Highway is now. Back to Key a ee
out to Key Junction again with Johnny Mallette WwW Bs a
the station and phoned to Parry a ee an
i i is was the first plan
in and pick them up. This eye ae

Coss and Jessie. It flew them to S
: was at 3:30 p.m. but they

Bob is now an engineer for
e owns a cottage at Key
hree boys and two girls:

jnman O
hout them. The

arriving at noon. The wedding
made it after all the problems.
the CPR out of MacTier. Bob Lyt
Harbour. They have five children, t
Gary, Ronald, Jeanne, Cheryl and Timothy.

In 1946 Norma went to Toronto to continue her education
and go to business and comptometry school. While there,
she stayed with good friends of the family. After graduating
from business school, Norma obtained a position with
Canada Packers, Toronto, where she met her husband,
Edward McMullen, and they were married in June 1951.
They have four children: Peter, Patti, Jimmy and Chris.
The McMullens built a new cottage at Key Harbour.

Carol, the youngest daughter (a Christmas baby) worked
at the Lodge for several years. She went to Smiths Falls
College where she met her future husband, Burton Porter.
Carol graduated, and took a position in the CNR Express
Claims Office, until she married Burton Porter in 1955. They
had four children: Donna, who died at the age of seven,
and sons, Grant, Gordon and Kenneth.

Beryl also went to Toronto in 1947
, to go to compto
school. She also stayed with friends. When she ieee fy
she went to work for Loblaw Grocers Ltd., Toronto ie
ee Don Lawson and they were married in September 195 :
eir family now includes Douglas, David and Di :
, lanne,

Jack and Allen went to school in Parr
He Jack then went to live with h
in

ewmarket and Toronto. Here he finished his schoolj
ing.

After graduating he firs
t work
from there to the Xerox Cane for Bell Telephone

in y Sound for two
I$ Sisters Norma and Beryl

el and
as a technician where he

€tWO sons, Ro

and Ruth returneq to Key 9
ar

a bour,
Sort until it was SO

mother and Managed th
116

the pookkeeping, cooking and seryjn
did the cleaning of the Lodge ang cote Rey
In 1972 Allen brought in help and fe Ages, ‘Nh, :

ea building by the river bank. jj i eC 951 it
dining room and kitchen with living tts ty, A 1 HS cam
Over the years like all tourist operat Warterg it ee a ; coe
many friends and received a tremendong: TS; the Yt Ny 7 wallet ae Coss Lyte
tion inthe Wore) TMs te Ca hin nop sc 6 to obtain aC
business. They all love Key Harbour faehae Ft ne . t ce es
eee ding the, pull acted as Chairm
The Lytes sold the resort to Mr. and yy ME abt ei the mai
Barrie in 1979. The Blaises offer fy ce Cy, pw ce Bee are
Jessie is retired, living part time in he eu Ae d, Georse M
the summer, at her cottage at the Hag Sound ay Ma Be uct :
After the Lytes sold the resort in 1979 A | ache ae ee
alot on Genesee Bay and built a cottage there - Duh fa: hea oul a
where they spend a great deal of time jn ee Dis fa q an (ope aha aul
has a marine hauling service and boat sto; SUmey som ee
Allen traps in the winter months. age TOT the. ] . NR. Konsta :
qc he rented tot

would take on the re
collector and secrete
was School Board C

back of Anderson’s small cabin. Konsta built asnay,.) 2S paid vos
Me 6s After the s

on this lot in the spring of 1955. Bill Pi q
build it and Bill and Emily Pillgrem ied ' teacher. Next follow
before they moved to Toronto. The house had ailing | Marion Piche, Miss
kitchen and bedroom. He moved into the ae Le no teaches
November 1955. e)  Lahtis moved awa)
In the winter of 1957 the Lytes noted they had nie! previously moved
Konsta, a regular visitor, around for a couple of days leh decrcts (Ere 1s
Lyte heard three gun shots and went over to seehin,) Sel ROBES Te)
found he had suffered a stroke. They promptly got tint ee cottages of
the doctor in Parry Sound. 4 ae Jud Poor. I
When he had recovered and was feeling better, hei . Jessie Lyte
wish to go back to Key Harbour in the wintertime hi")
moved into a little cabin the Pillgrems had built ath)
of their new home in Parry Sound.
Konsta stayed there for the rest of the winter, thet!
summer returned to Key Harbour to sell his house Ply
to return to Parry Sound to live. He sold his hos
October, and as he didn’t want to sleep tee” f
‘someone else owned the place, he decided to sta" a
Trott’s home. This was during the Thanksgii™ ae
weekend, and Agnes had a housefull of company: j
decided that she and Konsta could go and Sta! “ a
McKay up on the hill. Sue was alone and hae va ’
Toom. In the morning of October 17, when Agnes ii
Wake Konsta for breakfast, she found he ™! ot
sleep, ,

KONSTA PUKKILA
(continued from page 106)

: - thee”

see Lyte remembers Konsta so vividly a yo f
eee lon Konsta loved to come over &sP& ait
Sect wrestling on Jessie’s set. This sho 4

great, toi” :
agit © if

c Me and Mrs. Bainard of Sudbury © paints ; .
Rees and added rooms to it. In 1978 ue son Hp Key

frequently.

