# OCR Result for IMG_4315 2023-10-17 12_42_49.HEIC

**The Moose Is On Fire’’

MOOSE INN ¢ DOKIS ISLAND, 1929-1935

In 1929 Pete Murray was hired by a Mr. Collins to build
a large modern lodge. Pete built the lodge with a helper.
Mr. Collins never did show up. Pete never received a penny
for all the work of building it.

It was in the depression years, and the elusive Mr. Collins
was never located or heard of again. The Inn was never really
run as a tourist establishment as it was meant to be, although
Promotion folders were published.

Moose Inn was located on a small island in Moose Bay,
east side of Dokis Island. It was to have been one of the
modern tourist establishments which would cater to the new
booming tourist business in the area.

The main building or lodge was well appointed in decor
and services at that time. It had a large main dining room,
card room, gun room, kitchen and storage. The stairs went
up to a circular balcony fronting fifteen bedrooms. There
were to have been American plan meals, guides and boats
for hire, and electric power by Delco generator,

The Murrays lived in the Inn and took care of it until they
had finished building their new log house east of Moose Bay.
In 1935 Mr. Warner, a lawyer from Buffalo, rented the Inn
for two months for his own use. He planned to buy it for
a private club, but it burned down in the fall of °35,

Edwin Aalto remembers going with his father and brother
Harold in their fishing tug to take a piano and other types
of furniture from the Harbour to the Inn. They are not sure
who it was for at the time, presumably it was for Mr.
Warner,

Emily Murray recalls so well the night the Inn burned
down. Pete’s old friend Charlie Moore came over to the
Harbour in his boat in the dark. He rushed into the Murray’s
yelling, ‘Pete, the Moose is on Fire!’ He had been able to
see the fire shortly after it Started, reflected in his cottage
window on Dokis’ east end, Pete went with Charlie to Moose
Bay but by then there was little they could do, They did
64

—unlike the moose, continue to range along
DEER the same timbered ridges year atter year,

Our “Moose Inn” fishing and hunting lodge, situated
on Georgian Bay near the mouth of the famous French
River, offers the very best in the way of sport and
accommodation to the discriminating huntsman.

More deer are shipped annually from railroad stations
in this territory than from any other section of the
province.

Excellent duck shooting is also to be had artong the
numerous bays and long narrow inlets.

Our rate of $50 for a ten-day hunt at “Moose Inn’

includes excellent meals and accommodati
of all boats, canoes and the
tent guides.

escuc 4 (EY ven
: elco was later |

Anderson's pr
he jland 10) 2
t é now own

MOOS
ANI

mark

After the Moo
fo ie Devalune)
Anderson, a CNR
this island, KG 9]
and his family bu
which became a l

Ross visited Key
py train most
Toronto Sunday n
summer at Moose
back of the coal dc
and changing clot!

shelter if weather c
camp.

The Moose Bay
in 1975:

Mr. and Mrs. R
Donald and Ronal

Information supplied by local

THE MISSIN¢

In the summer of
younger brothers, E
trip from their cotta
to Temagami whic}
£0 via Georgian Ba

After a short tim
Georgian Bay stor
‘ported missing. S
Planes landed at the
but NO One had seen
“ight miles south of

‘val at the Harbour
all was Well.

: The Teturn trip to’
Pot ata Small island
> 4 Picture of

A nee LOevenmarks d
repair n Cottage in |
ing Ue to vandals ;

hig ele future, as
y Thousand Isla

Son 5 Loevenmark fa
hilip and dauch

