# OCR Result for IMG_4331 2023-10-17 12_43_29.HEIC

Form F36-B
300 Nov., 1941 (A265!)

GAME and FISHERIES DEPARTMENT
“YP = ss pR d
se No. B.R.---

ONTARIO

Mount Net Lirense
1142 |

/
FEE, $_109:20 be
tor" _POUND NETS Se 51941
Dei als EY _0O
This license is issued as a renewal of License New i oS Dollars,
~ < . One Hundar: 2
Bu Consideration of te sum of ———————— red with and made part

oe ; incorpor
and the observance and performance of the conditions hereon endorsed, whicFecaphereby P

and parcel of this license, the herein namedJoun Lanvr, _ coo aes Wr oe asons of the current year,
SN a Sees : sé
of _ 805 Torne Street, Sudbtgy Office is hereby licensed to sh d\ging the regular open : 4
set in lineal order a space clear of ine 0] At oe

with... i O== ===. pound nets, each having a single pot an
FC)

> 7 te
fifty feet left outside the pot of one and the lead of the nexpnet, irthat part of the public wa 2
teen Plat Bock aud Bustard Island

pewccane meen nen enemennnnrnnrammennwmnnn smmesen

Georgian : :
See aud to Lie

a
U Ay ?

———
au enneeeneeweennae en

Sa a eee

ea ccc eeme earner ore ae Te

with the exceptior of all waters set apart or reserved by the Department for Propagation purposes.

In addition to the fee herein specified a royalty at the rate of Yc. per pound shall be paid by the licensee to
the Department on or before the 31st day of December, A.D. 1942, on all Whitefish, Salmon Trout, Pickerel (Dore) and
Sturgeon taken in excess of sixteen tons per net.

“Rextension measure’ shall mean the distance between the extreme angles i

measurement shall be taken between and inside the knots, All measurements of the ait in oe en ee
made with a flexible steel gauge authorized for use by the Department of Game and Fisheries of the rou f Ontae In
gauging a mesh, the flexible gauge shall be bent and inserted in the mesh parallel with the selvage and with ni 0 a ; a
and finger pressure shall be released immediately, not gradually. If the flexible gauge does not straigh ith the collapsea mes,
its own tension in two seconds after its release in the mesh without slipping a knot or Breaks ae ten out completely u ‘
Any dispute as to measurements shall be submitted to the Department of Game and Fish ng the twine, the net is unlawf 1
the sole and final judge of such measurements shal] be the Minister of the said De eries of the Province of Ontario, ar

for such purpose. partment, or any person designated by him

This license cannot be either assi

ed or t ey
the territory stated hereon. gned or transferred and is issued subject to further licenses being granted for

rey, + 1
Issued at 02 is da March
ee ) ee (Perry Sound)
Sees 1932: ,
Not valid unless countersigned by / ie

LL beg

Deputy Minister.

i
THIS LICENSE EXPIRES DECEMBER 3lst, 1949,

80

IMPORTANT— i
T—Read your License and Conditions on back.

Olg
Photos fog raft fi

on

hei Page:
ms fou
Sim;
Mate, Stanii
Geo 4
lose Ons
the ¢,_” Smal

