# OCR Result for IMG_4349 2023-10-17 12_44_07.HEIC

CNR Coal Docks

: e Capreol
By the late D.M. Trotter, Superintendent a Hudson,
Division, CNR, 1948-52. Also by the late
Customs Officer, at Key Harbour. Mrs Hudson’s

By searching available records and d extra tracks
excellent memory, it seems the coal docks - tt sometime
along Key River Mouth shoreline were DU ded for
between 1910-1912. Later, the docks were exten
larger ships. :

ae Cur brought in coal by water from the mines a
owned in West Virginia and other U.S. locations. ee
was the main operation, stockpiled each year aa
south of Capreol for CNR northern division use. Coal was
also brought in some years for Ontario Northland Railway
and some for the smelters of International Nickel at
Sudbury. ; ‘

There was a “‘WYE” at Key Junction on which engines
could turn. All trains backed into Key Harbour in order to
leave going forward when loaded. Because sanders on most
steam engines put sand ahead of the driving wheels when
moving forward.

A small crew of only 15-20 men were employed for dock,
track, power house, building operation and maintenance
with Frank Julian as the foreman. Fred Bell was one of the
operators in the power house.

Ships of the Colonial Steamship Company transported
most of the coal from the U.S. to Key Harbour.

and Ship

; ¢ Key Harbour

Some of the Key Harbour residents remember.

all train engines,
use, and a
and smok

everything with a thin layer of coal dust for hal
lk,

more south of the Harbour. .

Mr. Trotter recalled tea the seven miles of track
neglected badly in the 50's with brush and willow,
right up to the rails, slapping at the passengers ag they,
on the Jitney-

With the completion of Highway 69 across the Keyp
near Ludgate, and deterioration of the spurline, te 4
of passengers, and a great deal of the fish catch ‘
shipped by fast refrigerated trucks from Britt, the rey,
income did not justify the CNR investment. :

The railway company was anxious to abandon the),
and recover the rails which were still in good condition
worth 50 or 60 thousand dollars at that time. Bean,
tearing up the decaying ties for grubs. Beavers
damming up and flooding the track bed in many ply,

Abandonment of the Key Harbour tracks require,
approval of the Board of Transport Commission, 4\)
fishing got less and less, the opposition for removal qj;
tracks waned. Removal was completed on Septemhy
1960. So ended an era of 50 years of commerce, a typt!
will likely never be seen again.

iT r

Key Harbour Dock Activities

Photos courtesy of W. Stahle.

98

Dredge and barge for hauling AotOmn material.

of

Brown Hoists, ships and ss aly,
iI burning coal, there was a great deal o¢ My.
e. So much so that strong north wing Oa,

whippet car ©
This unusua
Gropp; somet
own use. It we
The next vehic
built to run O!
lorries which ©
iously used by
supplies.

As there wa
very essential |
and commerci:
it was the fast
mainline railrc
one could reac
treatment.

This service
from Arthur C
this Service of
for all this fre
the tracks to :

4 Mr. Gauthi
ad for all th
Minit p |
fee to

