# OCR Result for IMG_4285 2023-10-17 12_41_49.HEIC

Faulconer Gauthier, Armus Ohman, Bill Belanger, 0”

right, with large “Sturgeon”? caught in pound nets.

The long, straight pound net poles that were pile driven
were spruce trees, obtained locally as well as in Pointe au
Baril area.

Because of the isolation of their home base and poor
communications, Gauthiers purchased their first float plane
in 1938. Over the years, they purchased three more, each
more modern than its predecessor. The last one was a Cessna
180 amphibian. The aircraft were an integral part of the
operation, employed for communication, picking up
supplies in Sudbury, commuting between Windsor and the
fishing camp, and for transporting crew members from Britt
to Camp in 30 minutes (a boat trip of eight hours). Gauthier
Fisheries was the largest privately owned fishing operation,
on Georgian Bay.

The Gauthiers own Canada Dry Bottling Company, Ltd.,
in Windsor. They purchased the company in 1948.

Charles and Edith Gauthier had two children; one
daughter, Edith, and one son, Faulconer.

C.H. Gauthier died in 1937. Faulconer took over running
the fisheries in 1937.

Fishing became so poor in the late fifties and sixties, it
was not a profitable venture. Faulconer Gauthier quit fishing
in 1969 and since then has disposed of most barges,
equipment, and buildings.

Joh j
. nny Mallette holding large ‘“‘Muskie’’.

“My Georgian Bay Home”’

By Johnny Mallette
T’ve heard them sing about Prince Edward Island,
The garden by the sea
All about the Rocky Mountains
So beautiful to see.
But I know a place that’s just as dear to me
That’s my North Shore Home on Georgian Bay.
That’s the place I long to be.
Where old Bad River flows swiftly to the Bay
You can see the Bustard Islands,
They’re just across the Way
Where the lovely Manitoulin peaks above
The horizon to the West
That’s my North Shore Home on Georgian Bay,
The place I love the best.
When the tourists come in summertime
Just to fish and play,
Where there’s Walleye and Muskie
You can catch them any day.
Where the Bass are in abundance
See them frying in a pan
Smell coffee boiling
In a beat up, rusty can.
Where t i
Wake he guides are always willing
. try to do their best
o make

ie Oe stay a happy one
a e you re up here at rest

ere there’s plent

y of old me [

Of old comrades put to rest 8

That's my North Shor
e Hom 4
The place I love the best. e on Georgian Bay

viscera rene SPDT
i

