# OCR Result for IMG_4368 2023-10-17 12_44_51.HEIC

St ; ‘ became evident that a School y, i
ee I included. ANey, p93!) 7 y Harbour, as the children of = 1 ae ane Was one ; or WAKUNDO
ty Sey tae BP at KO, i alti c NOWn Indien «y:
Hee. Ing gq rere Sto,“ ee i, Lyte’s and other families Were oming $ t Sheguiandes €kanon j n Indian Buides of recent
1 tremendg,, ct» the i stain.” on Coss Lyte, aa eae and Lawyer; Proudio., Rey Har cae Anitoulin Island a ae Ojibway tribe
te B® tain a charter for a sum 0 ar oe - Ivan then came to th
S =m 1, to obtain 4 mer school th and lik © Buide in | 0 the
€came a t] Tivj OF say ade = pjeto © fo Ocle at Would fable pe; 952. He was avery ch
arbour | Ing Nd p, Ustan : May 1 through ber 31 of fach year Sa Onal frieng. Iva Y People thought of fy y cheerful
nel ding yp," vTitayy, } , fo jas Chairman of the Board. The first school WS for his fish; N Was an eXcellent guide a dh cigs
ic 3 : & Cig tee, J yjale 1 the main cottage at MacLeod’s Can TOOm Van aut Unting Parties ack € worked hard
Age Mrs up “Number 4’ at the camp tad. D. Later H ded for te’s Ke H © guided.
Offer Ff, li'see Y Bla; > that 18 wae P today, Audrey © also guiq d fo hee Y Harbour Lodge for 29 years.
rtime ss TVie Sop ay 1 George MacLeod’s Sister, was hired as the fire ye ampbells at MacLeoq’s Catnp for 4

ar yf 000
at the Harp» SOung And, | yy, she taught for a couple of years ang lived with her Ivan was OTM On Manitay):
esort in ioe >In ae the camp. enly Octobe, ‘ ee Island in 1939. He died sud-
ta cottag €n py Cha i acouple of years, Coss Lyte borroweg the money *Y NOW live near Orillia, SE wife and two gon

© ther Seq 7 si 4 ilt a ne : j :
a ae time for his aS d 1 ohn Lahti and bui W school house Across the 18 800d frieng Att Yoerk Made a beaut;

1 the sy ae the Key Harbour Lodge, on a leased lot for his Brave sit © 4 beautiful headstone
et TEN si Tage fi oe He Wg Pukkila helped Coss } il een lovely heaq © 2t Bekanon, Allen Lyte Purchased this
onths. or the are jo. Konsta uuld the schoo} fi adstone and placed it on Tvan’s prave

|, ne rented to the School Board. Because no Or the friendshi felt b eave, as a tribute

ype re ibili one else P felt by the Lyte family for Ivan

4 ul ake on the responsibility, Coss became ASSEssor, tax :
PUKKILA ‘

aet0.

Ss

0
{Wo

|
m, i
sis i

school Board Chairman. After a 5
: id back with interest.

Next followed Mrs. Wilson, Mr
Piche, Miss O’Brien and lastly

KEY HARBOUR SCHOoy,
1951 - 1959

and secretary treasurer of the School, Sam Lahti

hort time, the loan
the school was built, Mrs. Boyd was the first
S. Coy, Mrs. O'Neil,
Mr. Lockwood. The

teachers were from New Zealand. In 1959, the

oved away to Sudbury and J

ytes noted they had Not seen

id fora couple of days. Allen
d went over to see him, and

>. they, promptly got him to

|
Lonever,

vas feeling better, he did not
ir in the wintertime. Konsta _
lgrems had built at the rear
yund.
st of the winter, then in the
ir to sell his house, planning
ive. He sold his house 1
when
ant to sleep there
e decided to stay at o,
the Thanksgiving eke
efull of company. a ue
uld go and stay wil aot
alone and had pe a
- 17, when Agnes i bis
found he had died

ne adver!
to watch
t was

o vividly ae

> over especial 3

his show he thous

a's

Kons!

bought oe |

"1978 the Banaras =,
1978 the pean’ |

and her So f Loy

Beith Yi Vij 7Our
‘rancis visit ] {a iy

Feious y moved to Britt

jutoday. The old school house became
Jing cottages of Key Harbour Lodge. I
i Jud Poor. It is now owned by Mr.
io. Jessie Lyte still has the school charter.

1957

ohnny Mallette had
» SO the school was closed.
there is still a charter for a School at Key Har-
one of the house-
t was sold in 1963
Tom Holman of

ee
Wee y
me

ol, MacLeod’s Camp main cottage.

oo

Konsta
“chool built by Coss Lyte and Ko

' 10lman cottage 1982.

if van Kewakundo preparl
Art Yoerk, Buffalo.

117

Queer

Aina,

as

