# OCR Result for IMG_4353 2023-10-17 12_44_17.HEIC

OUR,
MALLETIE ° BAD RIVER; KEY HARB
BYNG INLET, BRITT
as told by Johnny Mallette

CH Gauthier Fisheries

Johnny Malletté Se round at the Company §

starting in 1938. He stayed the year
Bad River home base in 1943-44.

While employed at Gauthier’s, Johnny
Grace Plaskitt in 1943. In 1945-46 the Malle
Britt in the winter months. He was Gauthier s forema
seven years until Bill Belanger returned.

When he worked for Gauthier Fisheries Johnny Cee
have to go out to the camp in March to open it ee oe
season. Some years he walked all the way from his * :
in Byng Inlet to Bad River Camp, approximately 30 miles.
ture would be 20 to 40 below Zero.

Sometimes the tempera ae
If the ice cover conditions were good he could make the trp
His route from the mouth

in 10 to 12 hours, steady going.
of Byng Inlet, was north to Champlain Island, Rodgers, then
straight across the bay to the Bustard Islands, then on 10
the camp. As Johnny notes, there were no snowmobiles 1n

those days, just ‘‘shank’s ponies’.

In the spring of 1946, Johnny took over the job of
operating the Harbour Jitney freight service from Bob
Currie. He ran this service for six years for Gauthier.

All the men that ran the service for Gauthier over the years
received all the income taken in, but they were responsible
for all maintenance. Gauthier’s paid Johnny a flat $250.00
per year to haul their fish to the Junction. Other commercial
fishermen paid 50¢ per hundred pounds of fish, and 75¢ per
hundred for all other types of freight hauled. Passengers
and baggage rode for a fee of 50¢ each way.

married Mary
ettes stayed in
n for

The freight and passenger service was operated on a
seasonal basis, April 1 to December 1. Johnny recalls some
of the equipment he used while running this service. He
operated a 1940 Mercury panel truck in 1946 with just
normal gear ratio. This truck had been a diaper delivery van
from Windsor, brought to the Key by Gauthier. Johnny also
had a 1928 Whippet that Reg McIntosh had used, and a
caboose that he pulled which had two seats in it for
passengers. The rest of the train consisted of open 8’ x 10”
lorries for the freight.

eS Sas

A load of iced fish on way to Key a
A lo

Courtesy A. Gropp,
102

Junction,

pounds of fish an

ad )
Photo co

or cars used on the rails to pull the
ey Harbour ‘‘Toonarville-type Troll I,

nilt front wheels with flanges bolteq ae Nay
is with bearings and axle. These were bi ti |
In turn the complete setup was bolted nt
of the car OF truck. The back Whee Oty
nd flanged to hold the vehicle on ihe Men f
f lorries would carry a total of 795 a
ry. Each box held APProximate) ON,
d ice. Gill netters used large; ot

weighing UP to 200 pounds of fish and ice.

One early morning trip to Key Junction fro
Harbour, (5:00 qa.m.), Johnny came to the bridge si
the fire tower and discovered red hot rails hanging inn |
air. The bridge had burned down since his midnight f
No one knew what started the fire, but Johnny felt ; |

specially b
Jorry whee
an oak plank.
front springs
rubber tired a
A full train O
of fish, 40 pet lot

Dog |

R
©The

likely a spark from his Jitney exhaust (the night before) thy |

started it.

Don Trotter was superintendent of CNR’s Capra
division and he soon had his men rebuilding the bridge j, |
the meantime Johnny would bring the freight lorries to jj, |
bridge and, if lightly loaded, the lorries could be pusi |
over. Johnny would walk the rails and push one lonya!
a time over to the CNR sectionmen on the other side tot!
taken to the Junction.

While Johnny Mallette operated the freight and passenge i
service, he had a small building at the docks where he soli I
such items as propane, fishing tackle, and paint. He aly F
had the distributorship of Gurney gas stoves ail)
refrigerators, plus the Esso gas service, for selling gas}
commercial fishermen and other boats calling at lk i
Harbour.

Once a week he had a freight-car load of 85 to 90,4)
gallon drums of gas come into the Junction for him, bt
would have to roll them from the car to the station platiom |
then to the lorries. At the dock it was a little easier to uml |
with the use of the hoist. :

Over the years he owned a 38-foot commercial fishing" |
boat, that he used to draw gas and oil to Georgian |
Camp, King’s Bad River Camp, and McIntosh’s Ca?
until about 1950. Then Mclsaac’s started servicing tM art

with their gas boat from Parry Sound.

=

Rage

f gas druy aS _
ms and fish leaving Key Harbour
Urtesy of Agnes TDi g Key

all yeat
i Mallettes had

eyanne, Helen, Me
ee to school for t\
we chet, Audrey Ma
( Key Harb«

e new
arbour Lodge. The

Britt.
when Johnny g@v

1952, he worked one
Byng Inlet and work

Johnny and Mary !
he had damaged his t
pension.

Johnny has a C.B
out who are in trou
“Father Time’’ Or *

I

a Ore, taken
hiteq countries
States dur

dun.” = 8toss t
the ve 1954 shippe
. argest
Place ° WComer
Ith 1,921.5

it i Se of World «;

“Muay duced
