# OCR Result for IMG_4292 2023-10-17 12_41_54.HEIC

Bustard Island Summer

School is out Hurray! Hurray!
And Dad is supposed to come today
To take us over the bounding foam
To our beloved summer home.

We've watched and waited till it’s no joke
Run out on the balcony to look for smoke
Then on up the attic stair

You can get a better view from there.

Scan the horizon. Is that a dot?

Yes! The “Old R.J.”’ is coming, believe it or not.

We race to the dock as she steams in the harbour

And we run to our Dad with much love and
ardour,

A night of sleep and we’re on our way
To our summer home across the bay.
The engines throb, the waters splash
And we’re at the Bustards in a flash.

We wake the next morning and jump to our feet,
The scent of the pines makes the air so sweet.
Can’*t wait to get out and down to the shore,
Hop in the rowboat and off to explore.

To Joe Green’s Island and Tarpot too,

Thick Island, Coral Channel, so much to do.

Must look for water diamonds where they glisten
in the sun.

Did any other children ever have so much fun?

Next we must find a swimming hole,

Then cut ourselves a cherry fishing pole,
Fish for perch through a crack in the dock,
Or wander over the island just for a walk.

We visit the ‘park’? where the poplar leaves
Sound like rain in the afternoon breeze:

Then to “‘House and Lots”? and SO many more
Even the place we called “The Store’

Barclay Roc

& Everard

Row the punt out to Long Being pretty hard wo;

But we'll make it if we don i shirk.

We come back faster without fail a.
Cause then we hoist our burlap sail. ae i ;
With pulp logs and water wings we learned to Sw we ae
Though sometimes our suits were not very trin O4,. : fo
We dog paddled first of all : see

Then practised till we learned the crawl.

When it was time for the tug to come in
We had to be cleaned up neat as a pin.
It wouldn’t do for Dad to see

How grubby and dirty we could be.

When the “Old R.J.”’ pulled in to the slip
We’d race down to the dock with a hop and a skij
Into the engine room we would burst

Trying to get to Dad’s lunch pail first.

1 Lighthouse

2 Bustard Island Camp, now

3 Dominion Fish Company b:

4 Meaford Island, Pillgrem’s o:

5 Pearl Island, Max and Pearl !

6 Highlanders Island, Pillgrem :
Doctor Hughes

There we would always find a treat
7 Protected boat anchorage

A cookie or sandwich for us to eat.
I’m sure as this comes to my mind
It was lovingly placed there for us to find. NWhiy were 559 rock mlande i

Bill with his red curls and me my dutch cut Bay named after the “bustard’
We'd play house for hours in a fish box hut. of northwestern Europe? These §

. : island areas, gathering in large
Mud pies was a favourite of ours too, man and ee ace These

And we were always together, just like glue. the name for the islands.

We'd set off in the boat to explore for treasul The Bustard Islands are simil
I know now we had it Without Wena are an isolated group about thre

After much research nothing h
A happy home and our parents’ love or who named them ‘‘Bustard’

What more could we ask JSrom Heaven abovecorrect.

Things no lon ger are the same. This group of very picturesqu:

: Bays’ blue waters, are worthy ¢
The Bustards now is just a name. early 1800’s this group of island

But there’s one thing I know will never perish before the commercial fishing et
Childhood memories that I cherish inner channels are a favourite |
: luxurious motor and sail yacht
Bustard Island Can

When Bill Pillgrem and |
working for Wilfred Lowe Ce
Bustard Island, they built the or
in 1954 on Island K.G. 7057 just

BUSTARD IS

Mary Pillgrem (Morlocs

