# OCR Result for IMG_4277 2023-10-17 12_41_28.HEIC

; Post Office — 1875;

1885-1922

Sudbury

French Rive

By Robert Boudignon,
ad its first post office
ster to accommodate

year.

neh River Village b
cDonald as postma
he office closed the same
he office opened again to remain open

John Melville Dollar was the postmaster
rds, the following people were

either postmaster OT postmistress: In 1890, N- Irvine; 1894,
Ge Brack: 1805, EW. Jes) 1900, J. Hancock: 1901,

James H. Gillies. In late 1901 May Borron took over until
rds available and family files, het

1906 when, by what reco

mother Emma Borron served until 1913 or 14. Mrs. Dean
Udy and family operated tl ntil it was
closed in 1922.

The mail in those early days W
Collingwood via Parry Sound, during the navigation season.

During the winter months it arrived by carrier Who travelled
the shoreline from Parry Sound, when possible with horse-

drawn sleighs.
In later years, W}
Toronto to Sudbury, the mail

a thriving lumber town on Georgian

During 1875, Fre
with Duncan F. Mai
the first arrivals. T
not until 1885 that t
this time until 1922.
from 1885 to 1888. By

he office from then u

as handled by boat from

th the coming of the railway from

“Franch River.”

RATES OF

{1 CENT IN. CANADA GEE. SEC
POSTAL GUIDE), IN ALL sta
MORE THAN VTE NAME i i R 4
| TWO CENTS F SENDER A
tt

AA

|

was carried by boat and on

Bay.

_ First to ey Junction, then to Pickere] p;
ost Office opened there. Pickey eae
, 1926 and closed Seu Ve
3 A.S. McConnel, lane iy
ceptember 1 1926, resigned; Howard Ga 19)
, 1927, resigned August 5, 1927; Nels

were:

Nn.
, 10, 1928 until ?; Mrs. M nW
1930, retired November 15, ae Wang
25, 1968 until closing Septem} ; Rig,
-. was the mailman for a good ie 9. \
: and from French River vill, Oye,
Junction in the early 1900's until 1922. In the ee toh,
open water months he used a large launch frome
to the bay side of Bass Creek tramway portage the Vil,
by a smaller craft up the Pickerel River to Onn
CNR) crossing, from there he walked the short 4; R (a
Key Junction. In the winter months he walked oven
snowshoes. When spring breakup and fall Ae,
resorted to any means of transportation — inboasa
rowboats and, where required, canoes. Tal
Few mementoes of the village post office remain: A jj
copy of Mrs. Emma Borron’s appointment to the io
postmistress; 4 photo of the last post office located; e
Udy’s house and several envelopes cancelled : :

postmasters of the day.

