# OCR Result for IMG_4309 2023-10-17 12_42_37.HEIC

Left to
E, Allen
1.G. Silbaugh,

Hal Clelland,
Charles Ha
Lancaster OM!

Point Cottage ‘The Commodore”’, Dr. Maybee’s. The other
two cottages added by Silbaughs.

spurline track, then north on the railroad to Key Junction.
After many years this trail is still evident in many spots. Mr.
Allen Silbaugh, in the 1930’s erected wooden arrow markers
on the trees pointing the way of the trail. He and the writer
saw two of these weather-beaten signs in 1971, still nailed
to the jack pines, a fond reminder of the past.

Dr. Maybee died suddenly in Toronto on August 23, 1931.
Mr. and Mrs. D.M. Lebourdias were guests at the Camp
at the time. When they received a telegram via Hurds, they
did not know how to interpret the message, as it read: ‘‘The

Doctor Maybe Dead’’.
Lois Stigman, the doctor’s cousin in Toronto, inherited

Maybee’s Point and the camp. Miss Stigman had no
intention of trying to run the resort or keep the property.
In 1932, the icehouse burned down. The lodge burned in
1933, and all the bunkhouses were put up for public auction,

sold and moved away from the point.
Mr. L.G. Silbough of Lancaster, Ohio, purchased the

point and what cottages were left in 1936. He received the
title of transfer on August 11, 1936. The Silbaughs built
two additional cabins on the point shortly after taking it
over. The Silbaugh family operated the camp for their own
personal use until it burned down in 1953. It seems again
that no one knew how this fire originated.

In the years 1948 through 1952, while the Silbaughs owned
the camp, Billy Michaud was caretaker for them in their
absence. In the early years the Silbaughs reached their
cottages as was explained earlier. Later, when Highway 69 was
completed to Britt, they would hire George Wright’s boat
“Transfer’’ to take them from Britt to the Harbour.

The Silbaughs visited the point regularly for years and
afterwards Allen Silbaugh came to MacLeods Camp for a
number of years with his grandsons, Allen and Tom Moore

On July 28, 1953, L.G. Silbaugh passed away and on rane
17, 1970 the property was transferred to his two sons B A
Silbaugh and Vern R, Silbaugh. Vern’s share after hisea
was left to his wife Elizabeth in June of 1973, Dr | Baa
Stone of Parry Sound bought the property on July 19 (ork

Stone, sold the point to Dr, Philip E, Smith " |
Marshman, John Paul Gratton, The group ieludi ane
Smith’s sons Bernard, Christopher and daughter oe ake
plan to build a number of private cottages, They h; ance
pleted three to date. StS bay com
58

silbaugh,

unstein,
hio.

Dr. Phillip Smi
1989. P smith

Maybee group on
Pillgrem Tug on
way back from

’ *
and group’s cottages, Maybee’s P®

SA
HENDERSON

As told by

This island cal
known landmark:
Bay on the east
William Proudfo
Donald (all of Tc
pour area. While
owned a cottage ¢
scenery and fishi

In the late 192¢
built the camp an
The buildings cor
living room coml
four sleeping cab
in the style of a
seen for some di:

Henderson hi
lighthouse shapec
and upper level p
they used the bui
son and guests Vv
fishing late in the
fall. They could s
dark to camp.

The lighthouse
needed also as a

The Richardso
or boats would b
Henderson’s carr
hunting.

Due to low pov
were little weathe
Georgian Bay evi
portant for fishe
understand the r

When Brook
Richardson, (of 7

Tisdall, purchas¢
until 1961, when:
hers died and o1

Dr. Tisdall wa:
Hospital. He bec
formula for bab

The Tisdall far
suest then later

Lighthouse” I:

Proudfoots la
Camp on the ea
Donald Proud
mer until he mo
Mrs. Proudfo:

