# OCR Result for IMG_4328 2023-10-17 12_43_18.HEIC

As the years went by,
ting and branched out

ae obtained More licenses for
oO future lucrative Pound net

net
ishing.
Oe ae late 1930's Art, the eldest, was asked to live j

pury and look after the business there. He also organs a
shipping of many supplies to the harbour that the fish =
then required. He took Care of aoe
pookkeeping in the winter months. His fathe

Samuel looked after all shipping of fish and

from Key Harbour.

John Lahti, Sr. was a very industrious
shrewd businessman, which he had to be i
area. He kept adding to their equipment,
and shops.

The family did most of their own repairs and building
They first built a large two story home on the island for An
family. In the 40’s there were a lot of sleeping cabins for
sale from the late Dr. Maybee’s camp. The Lahtis bought
these and used them for material for repairs, fish boxes,
and to build other homes on the island for the sons as they
married and raised their own families.

The Lahtis built boats, punts, a scow for their pile driver,
docks, plus a barn, icehouse and fish packing building. They
had a sawmill, and many other buildings required by the
fisheries and sawmill. The most used and welcome building:
a steam bath! Over the years they kept a cow for milk, some
chickens, pigs, and developed some small but much
cherished vegetable gardens. Hay for the cow was harvested
up the Key, as others did in the area for their stock.
Everyone in the family did their share in one way or another

, inventive and
n such a remote
boats, buildings

Catch of whitefish being 1

Francis Lahti Jr. holding 16 lb. whitefish.

to make the commercial fishing operation the success it
became. Many of the children, sons and daughters, sons-
in-law, daughters-in-law, nephews, nieces also helped out
over the years. Boys, when old enough, packed fish and ice
in boxes. The girls helped with the housework and other less
strenuous tasks. In later years the sons and their families
operated the fisheries.

Each year, in March at the spring ice break-up, the family
came down from Sudbury to the Harbour homestead and
fished till November. Then they returned to Sudbury where

inloaded and iced.

