# OCR Result for IMG_4374 2023-10-17 12_45_02.HEIC

place on the 1
dush the b
le to use a
ces, ‘Or ang
ibulations th

CY co
64 and Would bol MPleteg

10W spend, if POSsib]e

5) Six
lson, from Op

years with a
ury fora number of. a
© in the summer oan
J to Newcastle In South =
le to spend as Much tine
nce to travel. So

'D * KEY HARBOUR

quite young to live with
Michaud. Bill was Taised
be called a Native son.
| 1939. Since that time he
Ng Outdoor scenic artists.
1 around the world. One
n, and one is with Queen
| reputation as a restorer
of the persons thai en-
ng at the start. The Har-
son with so much talent.
for his father, and other
1 as caretaker for Judge
Point, when the family
it a new guide boat and
time.

}enbow in Toronto and
Monica, who now reside
1 and Bill married [rene
lizabeth (Mrs. vee
aul. Paul lives in Niagé

winter

‘a in the
Oshawa in ¢ as, o”

iz-a-Long cottag
rbour, Here they
o there,
paints so W
ome to Visil-

spene
| by

ell.

RBOUR fe
ea in 1949-197 ae
th her family ation
yn had their 1

607

0:

own land jot 1965"
their cottag’ | yey:

the
summers at

days ;
dditions 9.

BILL (REV.) MARTIN e K
pill first came to Key Harbour in
ihey stayed in Bob Hunter’s ¢

EY HARBOUR
Tin 1957 with
abin, The Place

in 1965, he bought Lot 12, south Side of Key
ind built his own modern cottage in 1967, :

He has added to the cottage and since built
house (Key Harbour Chapel) in 1970, nic
Martin.

MCKINNEY e KEy HARBOUR

Charles and Sharron BE, McKinney are from St
Catharines. They bought the Bemes? cottage in the fret
narrows In 1979. They have a son, Samuel and a daughter,
Kathryn.

MARR e KEY HARBOUR

William (Bill) Marr of Toronto has
bay up-river next to Morlocks,
in the summer,

MILKOVICH ¢ KEY HARBOUR

Mike Milkovich came for the first time to Key River, Key
Harbour area in 1962. He stayed first at Camp Dore. Mike
purchased a lot in the early 50’s located on the north shore
of the first bay up-river. He built his cottage in 1953 assisted
by the family. Mike and his wife Barbara have six children:
Mike Jr,, Daniel, Tom, Patrick, Katherine and Elizabeth.
The family are from the Cleveland area.

a Cottage in the first
Bill visits the cottage a lot

NEILSON ¢ KEY HARBOUR

Arthur Neilson married Veronica (nee Menard) in 1935,
Early in their marriage, Art had to work six summers in
lonely Key Harbour unloading coal ships,

The Neilsons have two children: daughter Margaret
Married to George Martin, now of Sudbury. They have two
children. Son Pete is a very good musician working in
Toronto,

Pete bought a lot at Key Harbour in 1963, upriver from
the mouth, He, his dad, and George Martin built a lovely
‘otlage. The Neilson family and relatives spend much of
their summers there,

OTTO * KEY HARBOUR, “PINE ISLAND” _
Mr. Otto Sr., with his brother, started coming to Key
Harbour to fish in the late 40’s. In those years they would
tither drive to Britt or come by rail, then from there would
lake Wright’s Boat Transfer service launch up to eo
then to Key Harbour Lodge. After 1952 the fishermen ae
C picked up at Highway 69 and brought by boat to the
“rbour and different resorts. -

After Mr, Otto’s brother and fishing partner ee
H0ved to Florida, he asked his son, Maurice, ng hes
‘Onnie, to take him to Key Harbour for a two weeks Vi

This was Maurice’s and Vonnie
larbouy

s first introduction to Key

area,

et 1964 Mrs, Lyte told them tha
ne Island might be for sale. 1 hey

“Olape, and after contacting Mr. Gre !

4 Purchase it February 25, 1965. Al first they

1 Gregory's collage on
liked the setting and
gory, they were able
had to rough

a friend and
; quickly grew
on him. &

River Mouth

a large boat
knamed Reverend

sae ee ‘Ise, carrying water, outside facilities, wood
healed ARE: Ge electric power came by in 1967 they soon
thelr pelea es all electric appliances, planning for
eeu oe Mase Mr. Otto Sr. passed away and the

ABE Was sold to Fred Stoerig. The Ottos reside in Allison
Park, a suburb of Pittsburg, Pennsylvania,

PILON © KEY HARBOUR
Tted box car used as living quarters for the CNR
staff was their first cottage. Mr. McDonald purchased the
building from the CNR, then Fred and Helen Hempfner
bought the cottage on a leased lot from MacDonald.

On May 9, 1964, Mr. and Mrs, David Root of Buffalo
bought the cottage and lot from Fred Hempfner. David died
in September 1965, and Mrs. Root married Wilfred Pilon,
also of Buffalo. The Roots had two sons, Andy and Philip.
Andy visits the cottage each summer.

POWELL ¢ DIAMOND KEY RESORT

Dave and Patricia Powell are from Goderich. They
purchased Cam-A-Key Resort in 1979. Dave has made many
improvements for their guests’ comfort since then.

POWELL ¢ KEY HARBOUR

Robert and Marian Powell are from London. Bob came
to Key Harbour in 1960 with the Acme Builders Group. He
loved the country so much, that right away he leased a Jot.

They built their first cottage on the leased lot back of the

coal dock in 1962. Later Bob built a second cottage, after
he was able to purchase the land in the late 1960's.

The Powells have one son, Edward, They visit their

cottage a number of times each season.
PIHURSKY BROTHERS ¢ KEY RIVER

Larry and Walter Pihursky first came to Key Harbour
in the 1950’s with their friend Birt Zander from Sudbury,

In 1961 they bought lots side by side on the north side
of the Key at the first narrows. With help from relatives and
friends they built two cottages, The Pihursky brothers both
work for Inco and live in Sudbury, Larry married Helen
Ciotki. They have two children, Jerry and Anna (Mrs.
Kanarwy).

Walter is now single as his wife Kay passed away in the
late 60’s. They visit their cottage a great many times each
year, Larry has a garden at the Key each year. He is now
retired and spends most of his time at the Harbour,
RUSTON’S “SUNSET MARINA”’ ¢ KEY HARBOUR

Paul William Ruston was born at Midland in 1946, Pau}
has lived there all his life,

While cruising Georgian Bay in 1978 he put in at Key
Harbour. While there he found that the late Robert (Pat)
MclIntosh’s Marina was for sale. Paul purchased the
property and buildings from Mrs, MeIntosh in September
1978, He has continued to make repairs to the existing
facilities with plans to reopen, as “Sunset Marina.’’

Paul has two daughters, Jennifer, born April 1974, and
Joanne born January 1979, Jennifer and Joanne are Paul’s
children from a@ previous marriage, .

aul and Susan Mckay were married, January 2, 1982.
They intend to make Key Harbour their permanent residence
and operate the Marina,

A conve

123

