# OCR Result for IMG_4300 2023-10-17 12_42_18.HEIC

BASS CREEK ‘‘TRAMWAY’’

Between 1910-1912, the lumber companies at French River
Village were phasing out their operations, moving the mills
elsewhere. To facilitate this move, they built a narrow-848¢
tramway at Bass Creek Rapids, allowing them to transport
their material and machinery from Macdougal Bay to Bass
Creek, then up to the main Pickerel River. From there it
was taken by barge and boats to Pine Lake and
reassembled.

The original tramway was constructed with the rails
mounted on large timbers. These were loosely chained or
cabled to large permanent cribs at the top end so the tracks
could float up and down with any variation of water level,
as much as 10? or more in the spring or fall.

After the mills abandoned the tramway, it is not known
if the Department of Lands and Forests kept the tramway
in repair for fire fighting, or other department needs. It is
known that Nelson Barrett used this tramway in 1928 to
transport his dismantled buildings on Ox Lake down to
Georgian Bay, where he rebuilt his new Georgian Bay Camp.
For a number of years, the Camp used the tramway to bring
in guests from Pickerel River Station.

The original tramway had deteriorated and was replaced
with a six-foot-wide wooden skidway or walk, bypass. This
walk was built over the old tramway location.

When Mr. Solomon built his cottage on Georgian Bay,
he rebuilt the skidway to get his material down to the bay
from Pickerel River Station. For many years Mr. Solomon
used this method to reach his cottage. A two-wheeled station
baggage cart was used to transport boats and equipment on
the wooden bypass of the rapids.

In the late 1920’s and 30’s it was common knowledge, to
local residents, that the Department of Lands and Forests
wanted a way to reach the bay with their large pointer boats
and fire-fighting equipment. These boats and equipment
could not be taken over the old tramway. Some of the resorts
on the upper river also wished to transport their larger camp
boats to the bay.

The Department blasted a narrow rock ridge south and

eorgian Bay end of by-pass w
alk or
skidway, photo taken in 1981,

away & lower end. Here they installed ito
east of the old enol flat car for transportation, Thi
rails, a winch: an vee connection from river to bay.
ort tramway tae tramway was not used for any lengy
It seems this pol "bandoned. The Department of Lang
of time before ie raft transportation and, jp th

itched to airc
and ee etic to reach Key Rivet by road — allowin,
early 50S;

heir needs on the} ;

us by water for all t : ay,

we a die oof Dalles Rapids in the 1960’s, made Ba,
he

lier years
serviceable as 1n ear ; ars.
Creek not See aig Resources rebuilt this old 999
The Ministry walk in 1972; Scrvine the sportsme;

en, portage ‘ :
oe a travellers on the river, (a short cut to the bay,
can

RAINBOW CAMP AT BASS CREEK
mation available, facts indica
“Todge’’) located at Bass Creq
Rapids was built and founded by Mr. Sopher, who lived y
the Pickerel River near the railroad. Later, Mr. Fenton wa
involved. In these first years of the 1920's, the cam
consisted of three small cabins.

It is presumed one of the reasons the camp was built a
Bass Creek, was because of the tramway, with. it
convenience of allowing guests to take their boats down ti
fish the bay waters. Rainbow Camp used the differen
tramway or walkway extensively over the years.

William Boughman from Canton, Ohio took over the
resort in 1928. He added a large main cottage in which io
serve meals, plus a number of cottages and service buildings

Boughman operated the resort successfully for a numbei
of years, except during the war years, when gasoline wai
rationed. He became sick in the 50’s and sold to person
from Buffalo. This group ran the camp until it wa
abandoned in the 60’s. One of its managers was Hamiltol
Crabbe. Some of the guides who worked for Rainbow ovt
the years were: Pete and Len Newton, Milford and Miltot
Dutcher, Johnny Gilbert, Sandy Mowers and others.

sh

With limited infor
Rainbow Camp (later

The Camp was neglected and badly vandalized by the tim!
Mr. Weeks of Parry Sound purchased it for his private us

GEORGIA
Nelson Barrett
prior to 1928. H
Bay it would be
tion there. He tc
to the bay over tl
other local resid
In late 1928 a1
Jocated on an is
where it still is to
the camp, he b
Pickerel River i1
which he kept ¢
Nelson Barret
He left in the la
seen again in tk
Gregory and
owing them.
Then Georgie
Cummings ran
Johnson anoth
another year.
Gregory and
group from Cl
managed the cz
closed down dt
the 30’s and 40’
down Pickerel }
Camp and oth
Roy’s first, li
intricate chann'
throttle. One a
know where all
know where tl
Roy Deal bo
He and Marthi
cessfully for m
in the fall of

Many local 1

