# OCR Result for IMG_4265 2023-10-17 12_41_03.HEIC

e ench
sh as As told by

EG come to

The first relatives of the McIntosh Pa ior on

Coponaning, after the Wabb family, Were The Moores

Mrs. Peter McIntosh’s side. She was @ Mool ne to work

arrived in the late 1880's. Peter and his a ore from

at French River Mouth in 1890. Both families pee
Collingwood. Peter McIntosh had four

sons:
Ben and Bill. . a

Captain Peter McIntos own amed
sw ansoverd wooden tug at French River. It fo
HCoponenite’: Wilh his we Het SS sane
called there for lumber products, in and out of the ha oon
through the narrow hazardous navigational channel a ene
to open water where the ships then could make sail. OM
of the sailing ships visiting French River was the Tollamie -
There are no records but it 1s presumed Peter used the tug
for other duties around the harbour.

In the spring of 1906 he and most of his crew drowned
near the Bustard Islands when the «‘Coponaning’’ sprang
a plank and quickly sank. One crew member survived. Peter
was buried in Britt cemetery opposite the Roman Catholic
church. The headstone reads, ‘‘Captain Peter Mcintosh
Born Mar. 2, 1855. Drowned at Bustard Islands April 30,
1906.”

John, eldest son of Peter McIntosh, married Georgina
(nee Shaw). They moved from Collingwood to French River
Mouth to live there in 1902. John captained one of the tugs
on the upper river for the French River Boom and Raft
Company. He soon became manager of the company and
he held this position until it closed down in 1921 at which
time he bought the company and ran it until 1929.

John and Georgina raised their family on the McIntosh
homestead located on the east shore of Macdougal Bay,
south of Wabbtown, in the town plan of Coponaning. They
had five boys and two girls: Reginald, Douglas, Webster
(Jim), Robert (Pat), Elsie and Gean.

When John became manager of the boom company, his
brother Peter took over as captain of the tug ““Evelyn’’. His
brothers Ben and Bill both worked in the lumber industry.
The lumber company built an office and living quarters on
a floating log raft above the Dalles rapids.

: Other tugs used on the river where the “Elsie Mack”’ and
Maggie McKlane . They plied up and down the French

and Pickerel Rivers from Boom Island where the |

held and sorted to go down river. es

Some of John’s sons, when they wer
their father on the tugs and Ste eee helped
Boom Company and the many other a ng to the
lumbering business. spects of the

John McIntosh formed the large | ;

Mouth to be towed across the wie . French River
pulling the raft, he would use his tug to Wo large tugs
the tug into the back and centre of the r es by Tunning
at night so the boom would be on th ait, This was done
Bustards by daylight, ready to start t € north side of the
permitting. © cross the bay, weather

16

Mcinto

nd operated the first

Mouth 1890 - present

jim Mcintosh

“REG”? MCINTOSH :

~

Captain John McIntosh.

In 1921 the family moved to Parry Sound to live, This
was so the children could receive their schooling — th
school at Coponaning had closed. The family returned i
work each summer until 1934.

During the depression years John was the Rell
Administrator in the Parry Sound area. He started tie
building of the road north from Parry Sound to Britt that
is now Highway 69. This project gave work to the met
receiving relief, which they were expected to work for.

In 1931 John and his five sons built a sawmill on the eas!
shore of Macdougal Bay near the homestead. In the mil
they cut lumber from salvaged logs. The family had obtain
the rights to all dead head sunken logs over the years inte
area. The family ran the mill until 1937. In

38-40 Pat an

Gordon operated the mill, but closed it down during thew"
years.
John McIntosh died in 1945 and Mrs. MelIntoshin ip!
Three of their sons Reg, Webster (Jim),
spent most of their lives living and working
cupations in French River Mouth and Key

hops: pouses and

McIntosh a
° omestead,
In the late 1920°s cottage, works.

and Robett (al
at differen! o
Harbout

Y

AND

Reg McIntosh we
and was raised the
worked for his fath
with him until the
became very intere

Reg was the firs
also to build a snc
was a long tobos
homemade propel
with this toboggal
to a short stretch |
enough speed to s
vowed then to bui
or water. For suct
powerful engine.

In 1927, he ord
to be shipped uj
engine was a2 Cy
wood from Patt:
he had built the
making it a col

The first peor
River, were Bi
couldn’t believe

in this funny k

Later they a
improving and"
the lower part

In the fall of
for transportat

Reg was Ver!
he took an aer¢

Lorain Airway

November 111

primary flyins

On August
the U.S. Aviat
of the first set
was an honou

After rece
summertime

months he w

