# OCR Result for IMG_4289 2023-10-17 12_41_51.HEIC

Tansport
Y Sound

rly freeze-up.

in wooden

‘ell Batteries,
e on Bustard

N — DEPT.
[E NORTH

o — with the
vas to put In
lighter, Tom
ou line up 2
a lighthouse
oards in the
e in the back
1 carpenter $
5 line up the
course.

of extreme
, Assets for

Lightkeeper Families

1875-1951
Edward Barnes Borron Sr.

He was a prominent Canadian who was elected to the
Ontario Parliament for Algoma in 1874. He later became
Stipendiary Magistrate and was responsible for the growth
of a greater part of Northern Ontario north of Lake Huron,
Georgian Bay. He also made many exploratory trips by
canoe for the Government into the north as far as James
Bay Area.

With no government records of Bustard Rocks
lightkeepers being commissioned, information has been
gathered from family knowledge and other sources. This
information indicates it is quite possible that Mr. Borron
Sr., his wife, or some member of his family could have
maintained the light from 1875-1885, before and while he
was Stipendiary Magistrate. If so, it would confirm the
records that Edward Barnes Borron took over the light in

1875.
The preceding notes are taken in part from “Edward

Barnes Borron 1820-1915. Northern Pioneer and Public
Servant Extraordinary’? compiled by Morris Zaslow,
Western Ontario University, London, Ontario.

Continued from preceeding page. Dick McKean,
Department of Transport.
lighthouse with a small open boat, coal oil for lights and
wick type lanterns used in those days, also fuel for cooking
and heat, but no radios were supplied.

The ship ‘‘Grenville’’ was built for the Department of
Transport and was their supply ship for many years, later
being transferred to the Prescott Agency. Losing power one
day, it was carried down river by ice, and hit a bridge. This
was in the early 70’s which, as far as the Department knows,
was the end of the ‘‘Grenville’’.

The lighthouse and range towers are familiar landmarks
for small boat parties cruising northeastern Georgian Bay.

Information courtesy of Department of Transport. “‘Coast
Guard Parry Sound, J.D. Kennedy.”

cIntos

tae as = é =p wea
Third lighthouse at Bustard Rocks. Reg

Fisher with the McIntoshs having a picnic on the island.

h serviced
the light batteries for anumber of years. Leona and Charlie

EDWARD BARNES BORRON, JR.,
KEEPER OF THE LIGHTHOUSE 1885-1902

Edward Barnes Borron Jr. married Emma (nee La Hays)
of Killarney, Ontario in 1883. Their first born was a
daughter, May.

With his wife and new daughter, in the spring of 1885,
he took over as lighthouse keeper at Bustard Rocks.

The Borron family established a permanent year-round
home at French River Mouth (French River Village), where
they raised their family, and the children received their
primary schooling.

Edward and Emma had a family of six. May, born
December 8th, 1884, Arthur, Edward, Hilda, Odessa, and
Randolph, (the youngest) born December 1, 1900.

Edward Barnes Borron, Jr. died in 1902 of nephritis in
the Collingwood Hospital. After his untimely death, the
government took pity on his wife and young family of six.
By this time the eldest sons Arthur and Edward were old
enough to help out. The government left the lighthouses in
Mrs. Emma Borron’s care. The family was supplied with
the house they lived in at French River Village and all the
wood they required.

Dr. Randolph Borron recalled that the boys would go by
boat to light all of the different lights. Sometimes the water
was so rough, they would have to stay in the lighthouses
overnight, causing their mother much anxiety.

Supply ship ‘Grenville’. Department of Transport, Parry
Sound district.

39
