# OCR Result for IMG_4376 2023-10-17 12_45_06.HEIC

| HARBOUR
kin, both from
Ist came to Key
Harbour Lodge.
Side of the first
Che group built
Sel 9574

ler in 1977.

nd visit the Key

Marie Lankin
on-Reader —
cottage 1958.

xi caught
781.

i

]
|

of 48

at
i tif

Jim Secord

HARBOUR ee
James Secord married Lillian Bechard of Britt in ie
They raised a family of four boys and five girls, in the toug
Yeats of the depression. :

Jim did ae types of work over the ue eee
“ps, many miles from home. Work that nd ed build
from his family for months at a time. He ane Loe late

hay 69 from Shawanaga to Byng Inle d Bigwood
lorties, He also worked many years for Graves oe didn’t
Who, at that time, owned most of Byng Inlet.

wned a big
) Pay their employees with money. They 0

eir workers
“partment for in ae ee ae the store.
'Ouchers to purchase the necessary £00

] boats came
lim also worked on the coal docks when the coa.

M0 Byng Inlet. was born in 1940.
he youngest of their family, Larry, — d at the early age
“W years Iater in 1948, Mrs. Secord die

3 thier Fisheries
In March 1949 Jim started wor king ee Jimmie was
4d River, He took his son Jimmie wi nly one year there.
“N Years old at the time, and spent 0

° BYNG INLET, BAD RIVER, KEY

de his own bread, and did
youngest son

at Bad River. Larr
for Gauthier Fishe
Key Harbour to do odd jobs and help
NEW store. In 1963, Jim
0 Key Harbour to live with Larry and
ars, Jim became well known and liked
Harbour. He helped Agnes with the

airs, and also transported all supplies
by boat from Highway 69 down the Key to Key Harbour
until a few weeks before his sudden death, October 5, 1976.
Jim was 81.

dad
ith his father
1960 Larry Moved to
build Agnes Trott’s I
age of 68, and Went t
Agnes. Over the ye
by everyone at the
chores and small rep

years w

Larry Secord is still at Key Harbour

, where he does
guiding and works for Key Harbour Lo

dge.

23

ny eave in Fan of Murray’s old home and store, 1960.

STIDMAN ¢ KEY HARBOUR

Bill Stidman and his family originally spent each summer
vacation at Tyson’s Camp Dillon near Nobel. Ed Tyson
would make “‘safari’’ trips to the Key and then out to French
River Mouth to fish for walleye.

Bill would often be among the party so he was quite
familiar with the Key. When the Tysons sold their cos
the Stidmans started to look for a place to build their own
ae arly 1960’s they heard of lots available at the Key
ee Lot No. 11 on the south side of the river’s
a
ce Aalto and Larry Secord built their original cottage
i ue they added extra rooms in 1976.
ee idman’s own and operate a lumber yard and

a Be ee in Galatia, Illinois. Stidmans are Bill

Saas ane Donna, their son Daniel and his wife Darlyn;
ne Wa and his wife Sharon.
ee strong, Mrs. Stidman’s father also lives with
h Ee a Ernie has to be one of the best walleye
the fa

ir has ever seen.
~<ig’? fisherman Key Harbou

125

ad River which is

, Larry, spent two
y also worked two
Ties, 1958-1959, In

retired at the

