***PROCESSED***
# OCR Result for IMG_4253 2023-10-17 12_40_37.HEIC

Lumbering

Ontario Department of Lands and Forest Parry Sound District
by Everett Kirton

HISTORY OF NORTHERN PARRY SOUND DISTRICT

At about the same time as agricultural settlement Com-
menced in northern Parry Sound District, lumbermen came
by way of Georgian Bay to tap the rich pine stands ad-
jacent to the rivers flowing into it. One of the first was the
Walkerton Lumber Company which came to the mouth of
the French River, then went up the Pickerel River. Their
furthest operation upstream was at Kidd’s Landing. In 1882,
Mr. H. H. Cook of Toronto organized the Ontario Lumber
Company and bou ght out the W alkerton Lumber Company.
Men and supplies for their camps were brought across the
Georgian Bay in big, paddle-wheel boats to the French
River, then in smaller boats or pointers up the Pickerel River
to Kidd’s Landing which was the end of navigation. From
there tote-roads were built, extending back into the uncut
stands.

In the early days Ontario Lumber Company established
a depot camp about Lot 30, Concession XX, McConkey
Township. Some ten or fifteen years later, they moved their
depot camp to Lot 13, Concession IX, McConkey
Township. These depot camps were used as headquarters
for supplies and for summer pasture for the horses.

Other companies of the period were the Turner Lumber
Company, Holland-Graves (later Graves & Bigwood),

Hardy Lumber Company and McCormack & Irwin. Th
held limits in McKenzie, Mowat, Brown, Wilson, Hardy e
Ferrie Townships. Tote-roads were cut from Byno lie
following up the Still River as far east as Wilson Towndhie
and up the Magnetawan River into McKenzie Townes
After 1910 many of the companies went out of business ae
others took over their licenses. The Pine Lake Lumber Cor
pany took over the Ontario Lumber Company’s limits, ie
Parry Sound Lumber Company operated in Wilson and
Brown Townships, later moving to Blair Township
erecting a mill at Lost Channel. The Holt Timber Co, logge 4
in McKenzie and Manly Chew in Wilson and Brown
Township’s.

Compared with modern mechanized logging, the earlier
operations were very primitive, the tools crude, and the
amenities of the lumberjack’s life very meagre. The first
camps were of the camboose type - a big, low, square log
building. The men slept on pole bunks around the outer
walls; a big, open fireplace in the centre of the building pro-
vided heat and in it the cook made the meals that consisted
chiefly of bread, molasses, beans, fat pork and tea. The
bread was baked in iron bake kettles buried in hot sand and
the pork and beans were cooked in big iron pots hung over
the fire. A hole was left in the roof for the smoke to escape.
Lumberjacks carried big jack-knives which were also used
as table knives and fingers substituted for forks. They
filled their tin plates and tea dishes with food and tea from
pots at the fire, then went back and sat on benches