# OCR Result for IMG_4291 2023-10-17 12_41_53.HEIC

$690.00, 195
'S0.00 in 1995
sification With
ctable Salary
“pers job W
hon

had become
use for hing

as

‘PER

‘bridge on
Ir years in
rarded the

e married
yved west
few yeals
the time,
yk on the

Tt. Parry

personal

he North
‘ment 0!

sromatle
Flynn ©
oO Ttom >
»paralle
Pom wa

entertaining George Johnson and the re
coffee br ak with his many experiences and stories in his
Jovial way. One of the Stories he told was about ihe lime
ies he was down in the States, he heard a little i ask
\ Y, tom said. “I keep the lights
at Bustard Rocks and I know What it is like to pace up and
down mn a cage.” Anyone that knows Bustard Rocks knows
that Tom did not have too much room in which to nace
There have been problems Opening the
on the Bay, but none like Tom had inl
his supervisors told him carly
and light the lighthouse at the Bustards. Tom Said, «ihe
only way tO 80 was up the CNR and through the bush.”
Tom expected to have to wade through swamps so thick
you “couldn't drive a Squirrel through with a blacksnake
whip,’> over ridges like ‘‘Pike’s Peak”’, and ‘‘snow to his
armpits.”” Tom was saved this envisioned trip by Jim
McIntosh who picked him up at Pickerel River Station in
his snowplane and delivered him right to his house at
Bustard Rocks. Be that as it may, Tom got the light lit at
the Bustards in 1930,

Navigation season
930, He recalled when
In the spring to get up there

Over the years the Flynns carried the precious soil for their
garden and flower beds (cighty-three) in bushel baskets from
other islands. This soil with added chicken products
produced magnificent plants. Tom grew tomatoes, lettuce,
carrots, Onions and sometimes cabbage.

Tom would bring chickens when he came in early spring
for fresh eggs and fresh poultry. The chickens would all be
killed off before he left in the fall.

For many years he had a faithful companion, a terrier
called *‘Spot’’ and later one called “Perky’’. They would
go everywhere with Tom.

Author’s note: From different people with whom I have
talked that knew Tom Flynn, I understand he must have
been a very sociable, friendly, loveable and jovial person
and was thought well of by all who knew him. Tom had
one fear, he was terrified of snakes.
Tom Flynn's favourite sayings:

(Everybody that knew Tom will remember these familiar
sayings of his)

“Holy Jumping Nellie’

“The Hootnanny off the Galloping Rod”’

“Wouldn't that make you jump up and grab your
eyelashes”’

We are sure that 1f Tom’s ghost is looking over our
shoulder at these lines, he would have a good chuckle and

ey

be pleased.

The Flynns became well known. Local residents and
commercial fishermen would visit them when possible. Mrs.
Wanda Godin, a daughter of Clem Lougheed of Owen

Sound, recalls, as a child living at the Bustards, the beautiful
character Tom Flynn was. Wanda remembers going to visit
the Flynns and while there, they, like others, would purchase
fresh eggs.

After Bob Young retired and left, Tom took on the

maintenance of the battery-run range light at French River
Mouth. Whenever he had to go to charge the batteries, he

st of the gang over

told how he had to walk a path to the light with rattlesnakes
striking at him from both sides, and Tom had no love for
snakes,

Tom and his wife lived in Parry Sound until 1948 when
they moved to Snug Harbour near Nobel, where they had
summer cottages.

Over the years Tom managed to maintain and raise his
family on his lighthouse keeper’s salary, without having to
take a job in the winter months.

He retired in 1951, and passed away in December 1963
at age 78. Mrs. Flynn died in July 1969,

The Flynns had three children. Leslie, a boy, born June
28, 1921; Isabel, born July 30, 1922, and a baby who died
at birth. The two Flynn children attended public and high
school in Parry Sound.

Leslie joined the Merchant Marine in the fall of 194], and
was killed in February 1942, when his ship was torpedoed.

Isabel married William ‘‘Bing’’? Anderson in March 1946,
and lived in Parry Sound until September 1959, when they
moved to Gravenhurst, where they operated their business
until Bing retired as Imperial Oil Agent August 1970. He
now works at the Muskoka Centre in Gravenhurst.

The Andersons have three children: Bill, a teacher in
Kingston; Cheryl Lynn, a registered nurse, North Bay; and
another son Doug who lives in Sudbury and is employed
by Inco. Both boys are married with families.

Lighthouse boat. Tom Flynn's son-in-law William “Bing”
Anderson with Tom’s faithful companion “Perky”’ on the
prow of the boat.

4]
