# OCR Result for IMG_4283 2023-10-17 12_41_30.HEIC

: : be the
and | 1/2 million yards of nets. This haber eile
greatest yardage for any of the Great Lakes, for any of
tion of trout and whitefish also exceeded that nd three
the others. An outfit for two men (a boat and sails, < these
gangs of nets) was valued at around $1100. Ina ca: ne
men would take perhaps 20 tons of fish, for Ton
buyer’s agent would pay $70 to $80 a ton. Mr. 1. He in-
records that there was then a small trade in fish Ol : ae
spected a rendering plant at the Bustards where 75 ba
of oil was produced in a year.

As railways encircled the Bay,
changed, Ea the settlements on the east and north shores
became shipping points, and home ports. The grounds wo
nearer home, and the abandonment of fishing stations on
the outer islands began. In fishing boats, sail was replaced
by steam, and it in turn gave way to gasoline and diesel
power. Pound nets came into use late in the 19th century,
and thereafter shared the catching job with gill nets. In une
middle of the 20th century, nylon twine replaced cotton in
gill nets, greatly increasing their effectiveness. Fishing equip-
ment was becoming more and more efficient.

the direction of traffic again

At the mid-point of the 20th century, the status of the
commercial fishery in Georgian Bay waters of Parry Sound
District may be summarized by citing the following statistics.
In 1950, thirty two licences were issued, permitting the use
of 660,000 yards of gill net and thirty pound nets. Eight tugs
and seventeen gas boats were in use, and perhaps one hun-
dred men were directly employed at fishing. Fishing effort
was probably at least as great as at any time in the past,
for although the amount of gear was less than was used
earlier, it was more efficient.

The mid 20th century is a good point at which to draw
a cross-section of the Georgian Bay fishery, for at that
moment the sea lamprey was about to alter it drastically.

Government control of commercial fishing on the Great
Lakes originally emanated from Ottawa. In 1857, John
McCuaig, Superintendent of Fisheries for Upper Canada
visited all of the Great Lakes to study the industry. Among
his recommendations was that fisheries inspectors should
be appointed for each major fishing port or station. The
fact that he also suggested that the seining of herring was
a menace to small trout and whitefish and should be discon-
tinued, indicates that even at that early date, there was con-
cern for the welfare of the major species. The first inspec-
tor for the eastern Georgian Bay area of whom we have
record is F.G.M. Fraser who, early in the 1870’s, was
patrolling in the sail boat ‘‘Nellie’’ from Matchedash Bay
north of Pointe au Baril or beyond. Fraser lost this cule
near Beausoleil Island on November 23, 1886. Running from
a storm, she struck a reef, losing her rudder, and, out of
control, soon drove on a rocky island and was pounded to
pieces. Fraser’s log book shows that in his patrols he made
anywhere from 10 to 40 miles in a day. Many days we
spent behind some protecting island, windbound, | i
travels, he checked fishermen, and their gear, no doubt ah
collected licence fees. The log shows that the great volume

of sawdust then pouring int i i
2 p g into Georgian Bay was Causing con-

f unsatisfactory saw, |

Lee oe oe given. Z|
Court ruled that the COntry,
eae d the right to collect revenue therefrom y, |

of fisheries a0 diction of the Provinces, and game Overseq,
we ue 2 ike Ontario government assumed the joh .,
appointed a the Georgian Bay fishery. |
supervision Jes and regulations have not changed mu,
Fishing Se years. Traditionally, there was a closey
down ee mmercial fishing throughout Novemb et.
season on = ay ‘n comparatively recent times, as wag,
was remove on pickerel fishing. The minimum genera] gil)
ae cele 1900 was 4 1/2 inches, the same as in 1969
a ie saint of all types of gear other than Pound
ee ail a also dates from the last century. ,
Activities of unlicenced fishermen gave Overseers the Mog,
le. Individuals and groups from the lower end of the
troub d even from the U.S.,using spears, seines, ang
oe ne worked in conjunction with buyers. As recently
as the 1930’s, the seining of bays in the early summer wal
widely indulged in among the Thirty Thousand Islands by
mainland residents. Small, horseshoe-shaped bays with:
uniform bottoms were

dispos@

[In the 1890’s, the Supreme

Of

‘hauled’? by two or three men,
using a seine 100 yards or so in length, and their catches
of whitefish and pickerel were sold to licenced fishermen
for three or four cents a pound.

When sport fishing came into its own among the Thirty,
Thousand Islands, a concession to anglers was made in the
form of a ‘‘commercial fishing’ line, roughly the outer
fringe of the main body of islands, inside of which com.
mercial fishermen were not permitted to operate. Since, for
the most part they utilized separate fish populations, the two
fish-users existed amicably down through the years.

The fortunes of Georgian Bay fishermen have flunctuated
enormously, subject to the demand for fish, and the
supply. Of the two important species, trout and whitefish,
the former was the most reliable source of income. Onet
fishing effort reached a plateau in the 1880’s, productioll
of lake trout held for 60 years within the range of 1 1/410
2 1/2 million pounds per year. Whitefish, on the other hand,
provided the thrills! As a general rule, production was unde!
a million pounds, but periodically (at intervals measured in
decades), the Bay seemed full of whitefish, and catches 0!
five million pounds were possible. These bountiful periods,
of about 6 years duration, were followed by an abrupt retu!!

to normal, or below normal levels which caused disappoill!
ment and alarm.

GAUTHIER FISHERIES ¢ BAD R
— 1896-1969

Charles Harold Gauthier was born in Windso
Edith, came from Wardsville.

Gauthiers started their fishing operation in th
of Georgian Bay at French River Mouth. Thei
was built in 1896 on a rock island in the west
Bad River.

In 1916, Mr. Gauthier leased an island, or par
from the government. It was situated on the ea:
the Bad River Channel where it opens into the
northwest of the Bustard Islands. The Gauth
has been situated there since 1916. They also
post camp at Champlain Island. The fishing seas
early May through November.

Gauthier Fisheries, when at their peak, ope
of six boats. One was a 60 ft. steel tug na
Gauthier’’ one was a 38 ft. tow boat, and the
30 ft. fishing boats. In addition, they owned tw
steel and one wood. These were used for pile d
ment and the assortment of other equipment |
the nets. Gauthiers were pound net fishermen
nets in the areas around Bad River, Bustards,
and southwest of Key Harbour.

Ted McCauly was for many years in charge
twine work netting. He was an expert in the p
nets. Before he left Gauthiers in 1946 he had t
Mallette the skills of his trade well, and Jo
Gauthier’s twineman in 1947. When B

Gauthier’s general foreman, resigned in |
Mallette became general foreman until 19¢
returned to assume his previous position and |
Gauthier’s as foreman until the camp closec
Belanger was Gauthier’s general foreman
number of years.

An account published in 1905 by a Mr. Edward Hat
g cricism of the licensing system, and control of the fishel
by U.S. Interests) stated that between 1892, near the peal
of a period of high whitefish population, and 1905, nt

ee in Georgian Bay increased from 80,000 to 363,000

le production of whitefish dropped from 3 1/2 millidl

‘ to 330 thousand pounds. We can imagine the

©ase yardage and cash in on the boom, and the 0

fish disappeared. We can pictul® ' pda SARE
Was repeated in the first half ol i
(Continued on page”

pound
to incr
quent Outcry when the
easily, for the pattern

Gauthier’s home base

