# OCR Result for IMG_4370 2023-10-17 12_44_58.HEIC

Key 9

ACME BUILDERS e Kry HARBOUR
rie Acme Builder Cottage Was built

10 |
memade Variety ‘ i
Of »,; :

Di

required for

/ Mergey
viany Canoers and EEN Cies,
9dern COttage AMpers

| “sited of Bud and Al Draisey,

: Lloyd Sterli
Sin t

og, Herby Arbuckle, Vyrne Smith, Bob D

» gr0UP in 1978. Every spring

and its TUgged wi a
&pt

ind they come fo

| te families come to the cottage for Summer vacations

BIEDERMAN e KEY HARBOUR

| Art came to Key Harbour in the 1950’s
} jim Reader of London.

| The Biedermans bought lot No. 5 on the Ke
} iad their cottage built in 1967.

} Art married Eileen McGowan and have one daughter,
) Sonia. Sonia married Gerald Fortrum of Toronto. They
} lave seven children: Ken, Debbie, Alan, Laurie, Nancy,
} lames and William. The Fortrum family spend vacations
vith Art and Eileen.

j The Biedermans spend six months of the year at the Key
} ad six months in London, their hometown.

) Artis a lifetime barber of 49 years, now retired.

with his friend,

y in 1966 and

2 now of Chicago
t, 1964.

BUCK ° KEY HARBOUR

| Albert J. Buck and his wife Shirley (nee Varey) purchased
} the Benner cottage on the south side of the river in 1961.
| The original cottage was a utility building benign oe
) Gimp Henry by Deek and Lee Benner. John Lahti my ee
} becottage on one of his boats to the leased lot on the River
} "the 195975. :
| Thebucks were able to purchase lot No. 7 in 1964. ae
| “tho built additions to the cottage in 1964 and 19 pu
a they purchased adjoining lot No. 8 and Edwin

f° lage on it for them. have
4 ee and Shirley Buck are from cee, Bae of

ieee children: Mervin, and his a of Oakville.

ale; Marilyn (Barrett) and husband Ric

: BROWN e KEY HARBOUR
: 4 Nitiam H. “Bill”? Brown has been a visitor
/ ten °F a number of years as he used to £0
|), Near Noelville in 1943. ‘th his SONS, Bob,
iy, ‘Hen made his first trip to the Key W r for the next
a and Jim in 1958, They came each y&@ ed at Mike
i “4's. The first family trip they ae they had
re OVich’s and camped on their cottage 5!
au Purchased. ¢ the work building i
64, Edwi did most © ‘a om hls

| ron colaee Ena brought the ie river, he
ete As the water was very low 125

to the general
hunting an

, ‘ by a
| geen from London, in 1960, At that time hee of
up

‘ oy 08; Jack Lak
n Georgian Baye atey geceased) Norm Crossan (deceased), Bit] Hartsell, Core
eVliegt joined

me Peta
} ckerel fishing and to open the camp at the end of ve,

Bill, with his wife Jean
1964, They Stayed in the

2 Couple of days.
€ Browns have lived ;

€ars. Bill and Jean r
Married with two children,
youngest Robert T. Brow
Jean died in the late 70”
Summer and has since re

» Made their first trip together in
shell of the Cottage in the fall for

n Maple Heights, Ohio for over
aised three sons, James H. Brown
John D. Brown married and the
n deceased 1970, US Air Corps.

S. Bill still visits the cottage each
married.

BARRETT © KEY HARBOUR

William Barrett first visited the Key Harbour area to fish
in the middle fifties and stayed with Mike Milkovich. In 1963
he and his brother-in-law Lloyd Underwood purchased a lot
south side of the river and they built their cottage in 1964.

Bill and wife Marily (nee Underwood) family are:
Thomas, William, Robert, Raymond, Patrick, Timothy, and
daughter Kathleen. The family are from Bainbridge, Ohio.

BLAIS ‘KEY HARBOUR LODGE”

Cy and Ruth Blais purchased Key Harbour Lodge in 1979.
Since buying the business, they have improved the facilities
for their guests’ comfort.

Cy and Ruth have a daughter Marianne, she is married
to Gary Lyte, Bob Lyte’s eldest son and Jessie Lyte’s eldest
grandson. Gary and Marianne have a son Bobby, born May
16, 1981. They live in Barrie.

CAMPBELL ¢ KEY HARBOUR
William (Bill) and Leatha Campbell were former owners
of Cam-A-Key resort. They now own Leo Rozesky’s cot-
northwest of Key Harbour. :
ne has four children, Linda (Mrs. L. Hayes) Streetsville,
W. ee Campbell of Toronto, Patricia (Mrs. Ronald
wilfehelD) of Palatine Illinois. Pat and Ron have two
: Julie and Laura. oe
ee ie saree of Sudbury, Norman and his wife
eee (nee Rogot) have three boys; Norman Jr.,
ar :
Christopher, and Michael. Gre braces ol
has one daughter, Jan (Mrs. Charles Drap )
Lee ee Va. Jan and Charles have a son Charlie.
Huntington, ¥. "*

K - HOWARD - PURDY COTTAGE

e KEY HARBOUR
on of Bruce and Hilda Clark, and his
ed Howard) of Toronto, purchased the
It is located on the north side of the

CLAR

Donald Clark, $

T
: jana (Mrs.
sister D Purdy cottage.

i ete : times
original The two families visit their cottage many
i ows.
first nar
each season. 2

MLN J

