# OCR Result for IMG_4273 2023-10-17 12_41_26.HEIC

GE
RESEARCHING FRENCH RIVER VILLA
d

py Brian an Bob Boudigno®

Introduction : ENCH
‘aterested 11 FR
anc 1 Dees first trip to the

My son Brian iG aa
y ij i 5 after mea ing 0
RIVER V TLLAGE in 1965 a cu reach the

site of the village with some American fi the Rainbow
village We travelled by W4) wie Out suum-

Portage and the Georgian Bay small-cralt ie , Bay, one
mer camp “Father's Point’’ is located in Hartley 2)

of the numerous waterways connected to the French River.
From our camp all of the lower French Rivet and its sever?
outlets can be travelled and explored by
motor boat and we have visited most of them. 1h
and still am interested in the early Post Office history of
the region but after this 1965 trip I became involved 10
seriously researching the history of the village. :

Before we made our first expedition to the site, We did
considerable reading from every source We could find on
the background of this community, located at the mouth
of the French River. By diligent search We located a con-
siderable amount of material and as the years go by more
is still turning UDP- We have now accumulated several
volumes of notes, photos and articles dealing with FRENCH
RIVER VILLAGE and its surroundings.

The First Expedition
On our first three day expedition in 1967 we reached the

townsite travelling by canoe and portaging the Dalles
Rapids. We set up our camp near the well known boiler,
on the east side of the river just south of the loading Cove.
On the shoreline nearby we found the one and only apple
tree, still bearing fruit. Setting up OUT tent was no problem
for there is lots of soil around these parts. Cooking was no
problem either for we found a considerable quantity of small
pieces of cannel coal, left over from the days of the steam
boilers-

In our travels through the region during this trip we
portaged into Rock Lake located just above and south of
the Dalles Falls. This lake was part of the original townsite
of COPONANING. Found no fish in the lake but good
blueberry picking in the area. We also walked the old Tram-
way line which bypasses the Dalles. It was built by the con-
tractor who in 1907 was responsible for the construction of
the Canadian Pacific Railway bridge over the French River
All of the material for the bridge arrived by way -
FRENCH RIVER VILLAGE.

Among the ruins of the village we located the Ontario
Lumber Company mill, the company warehouse, which was
apparently the only completely brick building in the villag :
and the company store with its safe still in location. TI es
were all very visible foundations. We also (ocared: ae
the hotels which had every indication of havi = a
burned down. Along the west side of the building i: re
its septic system. With Robert MelIntosh’s ane ae
the few headstones still standing in what i 1 as “ =
be a cemetery just behind their house. Durin : ue 10
were bothered no end by mosquitoes due to a ue trip we
also had our one and only experience with ¢ ea We
rattler, however, not being a dangerous 51 : Wrassasauga
go on its way. erOus situation we let it

24

The Second Expedition

During our second expedition in
camped close by the site of one 0
one was located on a ridge south-ea
campsite was on solid rock, for th

| this part of the village. During ov

located the sites of many houses,
the Catholic church, close by wh
located Udey’s house, Mrs. Udey |
We found too the remains of the
cut and piled umber was stored |
These remains provided us with c
ing. Among the artifacts we br
many square nails, some rusty §
glass, being remnants of bottle:
4 ‘sad iron rest’.

Having come to the site b
Jeisurely travel all the Macdous
sides of the river from the Dal
took pictures, one in particular
opposite shore.

This was for comparison pur

in exactly the same spot from
had been taken some eighty ye
house as our ‘anchor point’ si!
standing today which permits
gone buildings. On this trip
the building foundations We
be remembered that most of
the help of the numerous pl
village. Without these it w¢
ficult to locate many of the
underbrush.

(Continued on

Two different views of the remains of Ontario Lumber Cotte

pany’s stone base, of the mill chimney.

buildings, F
in Eee Photos taken by Bill Campbell §

e wall remains of one of Ontario Lumber 0
J}. and

z a aa

The Pine Lake, Pick

} 4
pa lis run through the Di
