***PROCESSED***
# OCR Result for IMG_4259 2023-10-17 12_40_54.HEIC

## Coponaning  

In 1875 the Provincial Land Surveyor, Thomas Bolger from Belleville, was commissioned to survey a townsite at the mouth of the French River. He suggested the name *Coponaning*, for which the plan was registered. The town, however, did not develop immediately to any great extent until the lumbering and mills really got underway The north shore of macdougal bay in the bolger plan, never did develop as the land was not required. 
At the beginning of the town of coponaning, the Walkerton Lumber Company and other smaller companies had leases in the area, but they did not do any extensive cutting. In 1883, the newly formed Ontario Lumber, owned by Herman H. Cook, his wife Lydia, Frank E MacDonald, John Melville Dollar, all of Torontoand Bracebride, bought Walkerton Lumber and its Jeases, limits and rights. Also located at Coponaning, there were Bruce Mills, French River Tug Company (later to become French River Boom and Raft Compan and Irwin and Company Log Jobbers. 

In 1883 Ontario Lumber Company started to build their 
new mill and expanded in earnest. Their men and supplies were brought in from the southern ports by paddle-wheel
boats. One of these was the ‘‘Asia’’. The townsite estab-
lished was to the south adjoining the original town plan.
It was of considerable scope and was called “French River
Village’.
Coponaning-French River Village, consisted of a variety
of buildings, mills, houses, office buildings, boarding
houses, library or reading rooms, doctor’s office, stables,
two churches (Roman Catholic, and Presbyterian), two
schools, (public and separate), three hotels, called the
““Coponaning House”, \ “Queens Hotel’, and ‘Joe Kelly’s hotel' (located just back of Reg McIntosh's home), a jail, a brick warehouse, a shingle mill... and a tunnel to the mill from the warehouse.

The town with its streets was very well Organized as laid out by T-Bolget (see map). The Department of Transportation had a building there, maintained as office and housing for their staff, when they were sounding the water depths for the channel and doing other surveying. They maintained and serviced the  lighthouses and range lights in the area (see [Bustard Rocks Light article](/_book/bustard-rocks-light

Coponaning boasted a year-round Population of
1200-1400, with another 500 transient seasonal workers when the town and mills were at their most productive, active years. 
The hotels were used mostly by visitors that were staying only a short time in town. 

On the inner back bay approaching the lighthouse,
pilings of the old shiploading docks can still be seen [ed-as of early 1980s]. Here, the boats were loaded with cut timber from the mills. In the late 1800's sailing ships came to the port for lumber. Then steam-powered boats took over transportation to many places in Ontario and the U.S.

The ship “Soo City’’ brought passengers, mail and sup
plies for the store and mills from Collingwood once a week. Other ships of the North Shore Navigation Company
served the town and other north shore ports. One ship ve
named the ‘‘Favourite”’ around 1890-1895, it ran twice a
week. Later the Owen Sound Transportation Company
served the area.

As lumber companies expanded, they put to good uselh
enormous tons of sawdust and scrap lumber. Fillingini
gullies between the rock ridges, making extra streets. Where
these sawdust-filled streets were, large trees are or Oli
today. The sawdust has become soil, or washed away
