# OCR Result for IMG_4343 2023-10-17 12_43_58.HEIC

CHAP. 114-

An Act respecting the James Bay Rail

[Assented to 26th June,

\ ;/HEREAS the James Bay Railway Company has by its Preamble:

petition prayed that it be enacted as hereinafter set forth, Lee, © oe
and it is expedient to grant the prayer of the said petition : i899, c. 71.
Therefore His Majesty, by and with the advice and consent of oF e oe
the Senate and House of Commons of Canada, enacts as fol- 1905, ¢. 110.

,
lows :—

way CompaBy:
1906.]

1. This Act may be cited as The James Bay Railway Act, Short title

1906.

2. The James Bay Railway Company, hereinafter called “ the New line
Company, may construct a line of railway from a point on its authorize
authorized line between Key River and French River in the
province of Ontario to a point on the Georgian Bay at or near

the mouth of Key Inlet.

3. Section 3 of chapter 50 of the statutes of 1895 is hereby i895, c. 50
amended by striking out therefrom-the words “the easterly side s: Se
amended,

of Lake Wahnapitae and thence to” in the fifth and sixth lines as to route
as to rou
from Parry

of such section.
Sound to
James Bay

4. The limit to the amount of securities ; ; i
of The James Bay Railway Act, 1905, shall ae : ; bong
railway authorized or referred to in sections 2 and 3 of this Ne ae for
* all purposes: |
5. Unless the Company commences withi :
completes and puts in operation within Bee ae ale ung ee !
ing of this Act the lines of railway hereinbefore ae oe
referred to, the powers granted for construction hall oe
respect to so much of the said lines as then remai ee
ains uncompleted.

ee ee

OTTAWA: Printed
: Printed by SamueL Epwarp Dawson, Law Printer to the K
: r to the King’s

most Excellent, Majesty.

The Can
James B
propose
locstic
ike Ge. 16

jeaial, 1S Wisxel

™-
PASSES} &

of seve

propos

feet.

Hon. M3

Gover

Sf Ju

—
