# OCR Result for IMG_4301 2023-10-17 12_42_19.HEIC

> Was built a
ay, with its
Oats down to
the different
ars.

ook over the
e in which to
rice buildings.
for a number
gasoline was
Id to persons
until it was
vas Hamilton
2 ainbow Ove!
d and Milton
d others.
d by the UME
5 private uss

GEORGIAN BAY CAMP 1928 - PRESENT

Nelson Barrett operated Wahnapitei Lodge on Ox Lake
prior to 1928. He felt with the better fishing in Georgian
Bay it would be desirable to move his main tourist opera-
tion there. He tore down his lodge and moved the lumber
to the bay over the Bass Creek tramway. Joe Robertson and
other local residents assisted him in this project.

In late 1928 and 29 he built his new Georgian Bay Camp
located on an island just east of the mouth of Bass Creek
where it still is today. During the short time Barrett operated
the camp, he brought his guest in via CNR and down
Pickerel River in his large camp boat named “‘Hiawatha’’
which he kept above Bass Creek Rapids.

Nelson Barrett like so many others went broke in 1929.
He left in the late fall, on a south-bound train never to be
seen again in the area.

Gregory and Greek took over the camp for the debts
owing them.

Then Georgian Bay Camp sat idle for a time, later, Bob
Cummings ran it as caretaker for one year and a Mr.
Johnson another summer. Then again it stood idle for
another year.

Gregory and Greek sold the camp to the Harter Solomon
group from Cleveland. Roy Deal, also from Cleveland,
managed the camp for a number of years for them. It was
closed down during the war years due to gas shortages. In
the 30’s and 40’s most of the guests were brought in by boat
down Pickerel River and Bass Creek tramway. Georgian Bay
Camp and others using the walkway kept it serviceable.

Roy’s first, light boat with twin outboards zipped through
intricate channels to Georgian Bay Camp - seemingly at full
throttle. One area newcomer commented, “‘Roy, you sure
know where all the rocks are!” He answered, ‘‘Nope, I just
know where they ain’t.”’

Roy Deal bought the camp from Ralph Harter in 1950-51.
He and Martha Deal operated the Georgian Bay Camp suc-
cessfully for many years until Martha sold it to Tom Beaudry
in the fall of 1976.

Many local residents guided for Georgian Bay Camp and

over the years some were Roy Smith of Parry Sound, Fred
Pillgrem, Paul Contin, sons Lloyd , Milton and Murphy.
(Information supplied by Mrs. Solomon, Milford

Dutcher, Jim McIntosh and others.)

Beaudry

Tom and Joy Beaudry were from Sudbury. They pur-
chased the Georgian Bay Camp from Martha Deal in 1976.

Tom was formerly a hard rock miner, but quit to go into
the tourist business.

The Beaudrys have four children, Ann Marie (Mrs. B.
Griffin) Catherine, Allan, and Glen. The Beaudrys live at
R.R. #1 Britt, Key River at Highway 69.

eS

(researching French River Village continued)
The Third Expedition

We spent the three days of our third trip in 1979 camped
on the site of our first expedition, that is near the boiler.
To get to the site this trip we ‘rode’ the Dalles Falls both
ways using our 14 ft. aluminum boat with its 20 HP motor.
Our search on this expedition centred mostly around the mill
site, where we located the base of the burner and the re-
mains of the framework which held the screening at the top.
We also took time to walk and photograph the old ‘main’
street and again found traces of numerous buildings that
had lined the street. These were determined through the
square nails, lathing, plaster and pieces of crockery we
found. This time too, we brought back more square nails
and an agate-ware chamber pot. We did not visit two other
cemeteries which we were informed existed, so cannot con-
firm them. With our notes and research up to that time we
felt that we had covered enough territory.

It was exciting and inspiring to stand at times where others
had stood in years gone by. They must have frequently
wondered after the last boat left at the end of the naviga-
tion season, when they might see the next one come up the
river. One must remember that travel in those days depended
on the vagaries of the weather and the many summer and
winter storms over the Georgian Bay. Just as it does today!

Georgian Bay
Camp

Courtesy of Martha Deal
