# OCR Result for IMG_4281 2023-10-17 12_41_29.HEIC

King’s Bad River Camp

As told by Irene (Newton) King

Alexander King and his wife Exilda came to the lower
French River shortly after the turn of the century. They were
first farmers and loggers (in winter), northwest of
Macdougal Bay (Kings Island).

Sometime before 1915, Alexander King fenced in ten acres
on King’s Island across from Thompson Bay near Bad River,
with hand hewn rails. He built log buildings, living quarters,
office, storerooms, kitchen, men’s boarding camp,
blacksmith shop, and two barns with extra sheds for
animals. In 1918 he made a special trip to Penetanguishene
and bought pigs, cattle and chickens to stock their farm.
On the farm, over the years, they grew a wide variety of
vegetables and winter feed for the animals. On Crombie Bay
they tilled the land and grew turnips and potatoes.

In 1924 they built a permanent home on their island of
cut lumber from the mills nearby. Alex and Exilda raised
a family of seven: Frank, Ted, Alcime, Dilma, Alma,
Philomene and Marie.

The Kings opened up a tourist business on Black Bay,
lower French River sometime between 1913-1916 (actual
dates unknown). Their first accommodation was a
houseboat and their first guests were Judge Batt and party
from Buffalo. Cottages were soon added for accommoda-
tions. Kings ran the resort on this location until 1935.

While at this location they picked up their guests at
Pickerel River Station in the early morning, and brought
them by boat to the farm. Here the guests enjoyed a
wonderful farm style breakfast before going on to the lodge
at Black Bay.

Irene Allen, of Britt, came to the King Camp to work in
the dining room in 1932. She married Ted King in 1934.

In 1935 the King family moved the lodge from Black Bay
to where it is today, at the mouth of the Bad River northwest
of the Bustard Islands. The lodge was all American plan
accommodation with boats, motors, gas and the best of
guides. The camp consisted of 13 cabins, large dining lodge,
kitchen with attic sleeping quarters for the cook. Other
buildings were boathouse, ice house, oil and gas building,
and docks.

They installed a Delco system for electric lights in the
1950’s for their guests’ convenience.

In later years, the Kings picked up their guests at the CPR
station, Pickerel River. From there by boat-taxi, down Bad
River, to the camp. In recent years most guests come into
Hartley Bay and are picked up there.

King’s Bad River Camp was supplied with gas and oil in
the early years from Demick of Parry Sound. This was
delivered by CNR to Pickerel Station. The oil came by train
from Stratford. In later years Herb and Lawrence Dupuis
delivered gas, oil and propane, as did Reg McIntosh, Pat

32

MelIntosh, and McIsaacs tug “Trimac’’ from Parry Sound,
In recent years Edwin Aalto has been drawing supplies for
the camp each spring and fall.

In 1962 the Kings sold the lodge to Dr. and Mrs.
Maynard Kiser of Tipp City, Ohio. Managers in the last
twenty years were: Real Pereault, David Boag, and Larry

Henderson.
Alex King died in 1958, Exilda in 1959.

Some of the Guides and Help at
King’s Bad River Camp

Many of the excellent guides over many years were local
Indians. King’s guide for the most years was Albert

Chevrette. His brother, Herb Chevrette, was with Kings
from the time he was a boy.

Other guides: Andy Solomon; John Green, and sons
Bucky, Herman and John Jr.; Donald Burke; Jerry Allen;
Arthur and Jim Noble; Charles, Teddy and Alfred
Delamorandiere; from Killarney. From Penetanguishent
were Ed Billehumeur; Tom, Sam, Philip, and Marcel
Boucher; Howard, Freddie, and Warfield Dusome; Waynt
Gauthier and son Leo; Omer Moreau; Raymond, Fred and
Herb Robillard; Dorsey, Murray, Russell, Pat and Ernest
Legault.

Guides from other areas were John Sagima and sons Bet
and John Jr.; Jimmy and Norm Williams; Bobby
Mendoshkin; Matt Gahgahke; Bill Noganosh; Louie, Daniel
and George Roque; Eddie and Freddie Tyson; Fred Joli
Herb Forget; Frank Allen; Mac King; Patty Egan; Dave am
Kenny Chevrette; Bill Landrigan; Herb and Art Robinsol
Henry Desrocher and sons Andy and Robert; Harry, Petes
Art, Stanley, Len and Randy Newton; Fred Longlad; Lion?
Moreau; Bill Payne; Charlie Martin; Harry, Charlie
Benny McIntosh. é

Some of the cooks were Louis Roque; Bill and ried
Wong; and Fred Martel.

John Green and Fred Longlad played fine fiddles “
the camp held a dance in the dining hall.

Two of King’s chore boys were Joe Herbert and, f0! a
most years, ‘Old’? Bill Moore.

hell

The steam tug right cent

We are not able to refer to a date
the commercial fishing industry of e¢
its beginning’, even if we exclude fr«
term, the catching of fish to provisio
bodies. At some time in the first |
quarter, of the 19th century, some<
together the whitefish and lake tro
fast growing human population to
the commercial fishery begin. The
to the Thirty Thousand Islands
achieved through the natural exten
ther down the Great Lakes. It was a
was opened, for the Georgian Bay
be the most heavily fished and the g
trout and whitefish of all the Can

The story of commercial fishing in
is largely a story of lake trout and
pickerel, pike, sturgeon, herring, bas
contributed to the fishery, it was a
whitefish that the fisherman sought.
with its deeps and shoals, suited th
other conditions favored them, the
fisherman in large quantity.

In the beginning, we may assum
into the Bay from ports on the lo

