# OCR Result for IMG_4318 2023-10-17 12_42_56.HEIC

he took then
or Bay. Alle:
lace to build”

the Depart:
ted the cab
up more and
m. Besidesi
Governmell
ey built ont

Ss
kept theo?”
srt and th

_ Karen a

ave

y. They
eif su the ;
ad spe?

pies

NICKEL PLATE CAMP e

Taggart’s cottage, Key Harbour.

In the early 1920’s many employees of the Chesapeake
& Ohio and Nickel Plate Railway Companies of Ohio, West
Virginia and Virginia became familiar with Key Harbour
through their association with the Canadian National
Railway.

The CNR imported coal from its mines in West Virginia
for use in northern Ontario division sections of its railroad.
C & O and the Nickel Plate Railroads hauled the coal from
their mines to ports for transportation to Key Harbour by
Great Lakes ships.

Mr. Frank Whitaker, who was Vice-President of C&O
Railroad purchased island #KG9233, consisting of 3 and
1/10 acres in 1928. This island is situated just west of Aalto’s
Isle and the south end of Germain Island, close to main har-
bour channel and east of the mouth of Whistler Bay.
He built the original cottage on the island plus a shed close
by at the back. This building was equipped and used as a
kitchen, where food was prepared each day by his porters

and cook. This arrangement of buildings was similar to the
Virginia plantation homes of earlier days. These buildings
are still there today and the cottage is in use. oe

Mr. Whitaker and his friends would come from Virginia

by rail in ‘‘Wayfarer’’, his private car. He would bring
“Wayfarer”? from Key Junction on the main CNR ine out
the Key Harbour spur line and park it at Key Harbour ie
he and his guests visited his cottage nearby. He also eee tt
his own private porter and cook to assist 1n the care 0 :
guests. The cook and porter would row over to the ao
early every morning from the. Harbour fo Pipa ae
ete. throughout the day for him and his guests and tn

back to the car to spend the night.

By 1937 Mr. Whitaker was near retireme Bs
and with his original roots in the state of Oregon, the c ne
at Key Harbour became inconvenient and too far aly ;
his use. These factors persuaded him to sell the ao ae
furnished, including three boats. Cecil Stanley a

nt from C&O

KEY HARBOUR 1928 TO PRESENT

The small shed located at the back and
to the right of the cottage (in picture),
was used as a cook-house for many
years. Whitaker’s cooks and then later,
the women cooked all the meals in this
cook-house. The food was carried hot
and served in the main cottage. This
traditional type cook-house was used in
the southern U.S. on the “plantations”
in the late 1800’s, early 1900's.

One of the private pioneer cottages.

associates of Cleveland, who were employed by the Nickel
Plate Railroad and the C&O Railroad purchased the cottage
and island on June 25, 1937 for $350.

The original group that purchased the camp where George
Wilkomm, Cecil M. Stanley, L.R. Delong, A.W. Latham,
Frank McCarthy and F.J. Hurley. They named the camp
“The Nickel Plate Anglers Club’’. In 1938 Hurley and
Latham sold their shares back to the remaining members.
In 1939 Rudolph Vesely of the C&O bought a share in the
club.

In 1940, five members remained of the original group:
Wilkomm, Stanley, Delong, McCarthy and Vesely. On
January 22, 1941, Delong sold his share back to the
remaining four. Later that year Wilkomm sold his share and
had Leo Michaud build a private cottage for him on the
island that he purchased across from Michaud’s Tourist
Lodge.

After Wilkomm sold his share, it left only Stanley,
McCarthy and Vesely. In 1950 McCarthy sold his share to
Stanley and Vesely. Then Stanley gave his share to his
daughter Mrs. Mary Taggart of Cleveland in 1970 and
Vesely also sold his share to Mrs. Taggart in 1979, making
the Taggarts sole owners of the camp. The Taggart family
visits the Key every summer.

STANLEY’S NICKEL PLATE CAMP

Cecil Stanley employed by Chesapeake and Ohio Railway
Company in the mechanical department which did engin-
eering, mechanical drawings and drafting for the Nickel Plate,
the C&O, and the old Pere Marquette. Through this associa-
tion he became one of the original group that purchased the
Nickel Plate Camp from Mr. Whitaker in 1937.

When Cecil became an owner of the Camp, he naturally
wanted his wife and family to visit it with him that year.
The Stanley family consisted of Donald, age 15, William
12, and Mary 7.

67

