# OCR Result for IMG_4303 2023-10-17 12_42_19.HEIC

FOX BAY, GENESEE BAY, DOKIS CHANNEL
COTTAGERS

TOWNSEND e¢ LAHTI e FOX BAY
Around 1916 a Mr. Townsend from Long Island, New
York, built a log cabin on a small island on Dores’ Run at
the south end of Fox Island. The cabin sat idle for many
years and deteriorated. Johnny Lahti purchased the island
and built a modern cottage on it in 1971.

Other cottages in Fox Bay area are: Pickonhogen, and
English north and west of Vixen Island.

LYTE ¢ GENESEE BAY

Allen Lyte purchased the old Schriber property at the
southwest end of Genesee Bay and built a cottage for his
family.

Allen, Ruth and their children use their cottage many
times a year.

“OFF KEY”
A FRAME ° GENESEE BAY AREA

The owners of this island cottage now are Mr. and Mrs.
James E. (Jim) Horn, Mr. and Mrs. Benedict W. (Ben)
Howes, Mr. and Mrs. Robert C. (Bob) Rosser, Mr. and Mrs.
George Thompson, jointly.

Jim Horn and Bob Rosser made two exploratory trips to
locate a suitable island, and picked this one in the spring
of 1959, situated north of Dead Island and southwest of
Genesee Bay. It is remote, protected, and has a good, small
boat harbour.

The group purchased the A frame plans from Western
Pines Association and the building materials from Beaver
Lumber in Parry Sound. They erected the stone foundation
supports in the fall of 1959. Materials were barged to the
site by the Lahti family in 1960, and construction was begun
in June, 1960, with the help of a large group (cight) friends.

They first erected a make-shift tent camp for shelter while
doing the construction. The large group assisted for three
days to build the floor joists and assemble the tall
wall/ceiling raters in position.

Horn, Howes, and Rosser remained on their 10-day
dawn to dusk, They hired two Chea) eee kin from
Saori ae en) young lads to help them

agot Jr. No power tools of
anykind were used, and the only “‘pre-cut’’ lumber were th
sus e
joists and rafters. All the lumber (approximately 15 tons)
was unloaded in one magnificent mountain and many hou
were required to sort it out. The long tap -
close the cabin’s southern exposure was c
delivered by station wagon and boat,

They have added to the structu
over the years, and all spend pa
Key.”’

52

ut in Parry Sound,

Te and finished the interior
Tt of the summer at ‘‘Off

ES MICHIE AND Mp
° DOKIS CHANNEL

COL. CHISHOLM, CHAR
GRANTHAM ‘SHIPS RAIL
1920’s-1949
Col. Chisholm and Charles Michie ee a
Trcnased island KG9005 in the early 20’s an ; ae :

Se on it. This island is about ae, .
Channel on the west side. Mr. Ou Be a : 2 noon
i _ He also built a cottage 0 pe
eit ships Rail,’’ which became the ee na

Col. Chisholm was originally from Cruden Bay, Scot ang
The Col. was retired from the famous Canadian 48)
Highlanders Regiment. Mr. Michie was of the renown¢
Michie Grocery Store, 7 King St. West, Toronto.

The families visited the camp each year until the ear!
forties. Then for a number of years the camp sat idle ali
deteriorated badly before being sold to James A. Gairdn
in 1949. Col. Chisholm died in 1953.

GAIRDNER ° DOKIS CHANNEL - BUSTARD ISLANDS
1941 - PRESENT

Jim and Ruthann Gairdner first visited the Key Harboy
area in 1941. They stayed at the Weis Camp located on thi
west side of Dokis Channel. They travelled from Toront
via CNR to Key Junction and from there had the experienc
of riding the Gauthier Jitney, driven by Reg McIntosh.

James A. Gairdner, Jim’s father, purchased lot KG900
in 1949. The island and buildings had previously been owne
by Col. Chisholm but the property and grand old building
had been abandoned for a number of years and were in ver
poor condition.

The Gairdner family renovated the existing building
which consisted of a large main lodge and three sleepers
They used it as a summer camp until 1962 when the mai
cottage burned to the ground. It was rebuilt by James A
Gairdner Sr.

He spent a great deal of time at his camp and enjoye
his hobby of painting. He certainly had a beautiful settin
and anyone fishing in those years was liable to see Mi
Gairdner in many different spots with a canvas and east
in his boat. Boaters, aware of what he was doing, woul
slow down so as not to rock the boat.

James A. Gairdner’s home in Oakville is a public
gallery and tribute to him.

There were five children in the Gairdner family: Jil
Jock, Peg, Jane, and Ellen. :

James Gairdner Sr. had a houseman, valet, butler a!
companion in one person: Ed Dzwalik. Ed was with hil
wherever he went, seeing to his needs. In 1967 Ed drown
in front of the camp. He was greatly missed by M!
Gairdner. In 1969 the property was sold to Alan Clark
lived in Toronto at that time.

JAMES H. (iim) GAIRDNER AND FAMILY :

Before the old Chisholm buildings burned down, in abot
1959, Jim had purchased Lot KG9002 and cottage, Wi"
= IOS by the Gairdner Camp on Dokis Channel and ne
to Weis’ Camp, from Eileen Blevins.

Se ne
y renovated the entire original Ble

Jim and his famil

cottage as it
by John Lz
century.

Once the.
their childr«
as their sun
Jamie, Car
it each sum

JIM AND

In 1966 J
White Fish
lovely sumn
many times
at their co
charming w
feed from |

DIC

Edward L
to Toronto
consisting o
acre. The is!
west of Dol

He brous
Constructio
main cabin i
to 1936 for
daughter El
Visiting the

Originally
Edward, his
from the cit:
full summer

The meth
Drive to Par
Catch the 3 :
to the Harbc
With a disap,
a Sturdy bo:

Their sup)
at Key Ha
Caulfield’s |
up from the

Edward D
Camp to Du
Mr. D.B. F
1958.

David, the
With the 48t
the daughter

eter Dickie
Toronto.

