# OCR Result for IMG_4337 2023-10-17 12_43_37.HEIC

and Pamela. Browns purchased the Ryan’s cottage on the
Key River in 1970. They sold the cottage to a lady from Ohio
in 1972.

In 1971 Browns purchased Master’s island and cottage
on Finn Channel. In 1981 they sold the island and cottage
to Mr. Longstreet of Sudbury.

PIERCE « KEY HARBOUR
Frank Pierce first visited the Key Harbour area in the late
thirties and early forties. He worked for the CNR at the
time in Sudbury and was a friend of the Lahti family. His
first visits were for some recreation and fishing. Occasionally
he would give the Lahti family a hand with the general
operation at the Key.

In 1951 he made an application for survey to buy a small
island south of Lahti’s homestead. Sam, Art and Arvid Lahti
began work on the cottage in August 1951. He purchased
the island in 1952.

In the spring of 1952 Frank continued construction of his
cottage with the help of J ohn Lahti, his sons, Sam, Arvid
and Francis. Also assisting in finishing the cottage in July
was Virginia Pierce’s father, Gus Jensen of Chicago.
Norva, the eldest daughter, did visit the Key in 1951. By
mid summer Frank was able to bring the rest of his family
to visit the Key for their first time. Some of the family still
come each summer for their vacation.

The Pierce family were Frank (deceased 1967) his wife,
Virginia (nee Jensen). Virginia now lives in Barrie. Their
children are: Nova, (Mrs. Gary Quigly), of Ajax, Daniel,
married to Heidi (Behre), living in Montreal, Quebec,
Gregory, residing in Whitby, Connie, (Mrs. Russell
Morreale) of Toronto.

ROBINSON e KEY HARBOUR

Gordon and Tyyne Robinson bought an island south of
the Lahti homestead in the late 1930’s. They built their
cottage in 1941-42. Gordon has since covered all of the
cottage with local rock, a fantastic achievement.

The Robinsons had four children, Richard, Rodney,
Candis and Johnny. Candis and Johnny are deceased.

Gordon worked for Inco, and is now retired.

FRED KIVINEN FAMILY ° KEY HARBOUR
Fred Kivinen and his wife Ellen are from Sudbury. They
bought an island south of the Lahti homestead, and built
their cottage in 1954. The Kivinen family come to their
cottage a great deal. Fred and Ellen have a son, Bentti and
a grandson, Raymond.

MAIZUK ¢ KEY HARBOU
The Maizuks were first introduced to the Ke
/ y and came
down with Harvey Lahti. Joe bought their island south of
the Harbour in 1955 and built his cottage himself
Joe worked for Falconbridge Nickel Mi
on el Mines for many
He also brought fame to Sudbur
He y and Key Harbour
winning top awards in Hand Gun Shooting ae
Joe started shooting with hand guns in 1965, In 1969-71 } :
a the Northern Ontario Hand Gun Championship. J :
also won the spring and fall, All Ontario Champions! an
mpionship in

86

ne en Conan
stole Bas’ 972 that Won
s presented

d for stand i
sper PP jp
calibel | | team er

1970. He also set a recor
In 1972 he won the 22

Championship. Joe was a".

the Dominion Team Champions oe

with Gold Medals. eg daugh cpend many week,
Joe and his wife Nellie ee Maizuk®

Viola) of Sarnia, Ontarlo:

at Tee island retreat eac

TURKSTRA ° a Fane
Hessel (Harold) and Mei
ccs to Hith the RO. eens
reached the Key. The Turks d's Camp-
a number of years at Mae
In the late 1950's; Bee
to Key Harbour west 0

the island. re Marth ‘ :
Harold died ’s.M nd Eddie Kachurowski of

to Bill Krupski of Missisea ose friends of Bill Campbell

re
Toronto. The Turkstras a a PANOUE
i en
The Krupski 2 1957 . They rented cottage;
‘chi rareal
fishing the BY d later Cam-A-Key Resort.
from MacLeod’s Camp an a oi
Bill and his wife Natalie Krups rae one of the
Turkstra cottage and jcland. They bought taeisiane tp 1973,
The family and friends spend m
tage from spring until late fall.
Bill and Natalie have
Laros) of Burlington, an
GORDAY ¢ KEY HARBOUR
Bob Gorday and his wife Ann of Sudbury, bought Harold
Aalto’s original cottage and island west of the Finn Chan-
nel in 1974. They built a large cottage. The Gordays visit
the Harbour regularly. Bob and Ann have a son, Gregory.
Bobs father John (Jack) Gorday helped build Bob’s col:

wa

jso ont he tea

pileen (Mrs. J,

ds stayed fo;

Leod

d Bill Jr. living at home.

or Ancaster firs |
when Highway 69

ased 2 small island, Close |
+, and built a cottage on |

a sold the cottage in 1973 |

from Toronto started |

any weekends at their cot-

two children; Kathe (Mrs. John |

tage. John and his wife Meimi (nee Aalto) have 3 children; |

Jim of St. Catharines, a teacher, Bob an electrician, and
Irene Irvine of Sudbury.

KEY RIVER COTTAGERS

Other cottagers south of Key Harbour are: the Martin

Suomala, Salo, Horton and Ragot families.
YUZDEPSKI ¢ MUSKRAT BAY, KEY RIVER

Joe and his wife Flo first came to Key Harbour im 1950
They bought a lot on the north shore of Muskrat Bay @
built their cottage in 1954.

The Yuzdepskis came from Sudbury. Joe worked fo! MG
for 35 years and Flo was a nurse at the Sudbury Gert
Hospital for 18 years. All Joe’s friends knew him

Moustache Joe’’. Joe died September 14, 1981. Flos
the cottage to Milton Colander of Cleveland, Ohio.

Svechaes * MUSKRAT BAY, KEY RIVER _
eee is wife Stella from Sudbury, bought 4 a ne"
ane 0 Yuzdepski in 1960. They built their cottae wl
32 ee Ho on Key River, Steve worked fo! in

years and is now retired.'Stella died in 1980.

The Her
Bill Henry won s
ey Inlet ina poker g
ine jetty Bill first built one ¢
pen then he started b
owt u y Camp Henry wa:
In ot fitters camp, owned
ere seven cottages an

d five cottages on
od t0 fishermen and hu

and guides for hire.
Gilbert «Manny ”’ Allen w
ne mechanic, and hand:
ae jaunch captain from
i + launch used was tl
py George wright. It was é
A to bring the guests fre
Seomp Henry had four Gre
ned “‘Jessie’’). These laun
ouides tO the fishing area €
vowed their CUSLOMIC!S 100
fishing areas stopping at noo!
At the end of the day, all boa
ranged spot to be towed bac!
guides’ wages were $2.50 per
used it was raised to $3.00
rowing and cooking shore i

more than the day’s pay.

Guides at Camp Henry o
and Bob Allen, Joe Lachan
Lamore; Gilbert Ambrose ar
Dave, Ernest and Lawrence P
Lamore; Gilbert Ambroise a
Dave, Ernest and Lawrence |]
Eli Brebant; Henry Robillarc
cae Sangelais; Louis ]
3 ee Arvid; Sam and Fr:
Con € men were from Br
inued on Wright’s pa:

jn J?

aD
qhere
isla?

fon BROTHERS ° HE)
a ash of Franklinvi
They Tge Cash first visite
Big De Spent two weeks at
ae Lake, situated ar
buy ce They had bee
ae i and somewhere o1
in Par, *Y stopped at the D
that : Sound and looked ¢
time, 7 80vernment was enc
Mouth Cash brothers pic!
ae €nvey Inlet.

Oca ne fortunate at th
Start con €nt and excellent.
: ech of their c
ice ae buying nail
8et some. This th

