# OCR Result for IMG_4326 2023-10-17 12_43_14.HEIC

slentiful

g up the
highway
S are on
swam)
or a few
at barge

as much

Jeasanl,

ride on
atchine ©
0.10% |

{ was a
stacke?

Mr. Aalto bought one of Dr, Maybee’s Sleeping cabj
from John Lahti, who had purchased them all when tHe
were put up for sale. He moved it to his outpost cam ff
jsland south of Roger’s Island to be used as an evel tit
cabin. Later when they built a scow for this purpose aie
moved the cabin back home, where it has been used as a
sleeping cabin up until the mid 60’s.

As time passed, Alex with the help of a wonderful
sacrificing, industrious wife and their fi |

ne children managed
to progress and prosper. Mr. Aalto was one of the local

original Finnish pioneer stock of Key Harbour. He died in
1947, leaving his wife Aino and youngest son Edwin, on the
homestead island.

Edwin built for himself and his mother a lovely new home
on the island. The foundation was started in 1959, and the
building completed in 1961.

Alex and Aino had five children: Harold, Key Harbour;
Meimie (Mrs. Jack Gorday) Sudbury; Ingrid (Mrs. Peter
Gibbs) Willowdale; Aune (Mrs. C.R. Ferrier) Toronto, and
Edwin of Key Harbour.

After Mr. Aalto died, Harold and Edwin continued
commercial fishing in the fall seasons from 1947-1950. They
both worked in the summer as guides at the different
flourishing tourist establishments in the district.

In 1944, Aaltos helped raise and refloat the tug ‘‘Warren
L”’, that had sunk in the fall near Dead Island. They bought
the tug and used it for a number of years.

In the years between 1950 and 1956, Harold and Edwin
worked the year round at commercial fishing. As their old
tug was in bad shape, they decided to gamble, and with help
and advice from others in the area, they bought a new steel
tug. This tug they named ‘‘HAREDAIN”’ after Harold,
Edwin and Aino. It is still on active duty around Key
Harbour. The first few years were very profitable with the
new boat, as there was an abundant fish population and
prices were high. When fishing took a drastic drop, and was
no longer profitable, Harold decided to give up fishing and
go into the tourist business. a

When Harold stopped commercial fishing, Edwin also

ands wn lumber was used to build
this boat in 1937.

Finished boat,

One of Aalto’s first
Snowplanes built
by Edwin in 1950.

The fis

quit. Or, as he liked to say, “‘I retired at a young age to my
home island and my workshops.’ He then started working
seven days a week, so it seems, with his many gifted talents
in guiding, cottage construction, boats and motor repairs,
storage, rescue salvaging, skin diving, cartage, trapping and
filling icehouses. Edwin has been kept very busy since the
late 50’s at these many jobs in the area, In later years Edwin
built a large boat storage building on the island.

Harold and Edwin are the only Aaltos still living the year
round on the homestead island. Mrs. Aalto was very active
until she was 85, keeping a ship-shape home for her sons.
In 1978 she had a serious fall and her health became poor.
She had to be taken to Parry Sound for medical treatment,
The family and relatives visit the homestead frequently
throughout the year.

Mr. and Mrs. Aalto.

