# OCR Result for IMG_4304 2023-10-17 12_42_19.HEIC

nottage aS it is today. This cottage had
py John Lahti for Dr. Ross shortly
century: ; a

Once the Blevins’ cabin was renovat
eneir children (Bill, Jamie, Carol an
as their summer residence. Since 19
Jamie, Carol (Mrs. Steen), and No
; each summer On their vacations

been Originally built
after the turn of the

ed, Jim, Ruthann and
d Norma) took it over
66 the families of Bill
rma (Mrs. Becker),

.

use

yiM AND RUTHANN GAIRDNER
ISLANDS

In 1966 Jim and Ruthann purchased Is

White Fish Bay in the Bustard Islands,

lovely summer home, Jim flies his float plane from Toronto

many times each year. The Gairdners spend a lot of time

at their cottage. Mrs. Gairdner takes great delight in

charming wild birds of many varieties. They fly to her and
feed from her hands.

° BUSTARD

land KG7126 on
Here they built a

DICKIES e DOKIS CHANNEL 1926-1946
As told by Peter Dickie

Edward Dickie was from Peterhead, Scotland and came
to Toronto in 1926. He bought a parcel of crown land
consisting of a seven-acre island, KG 8727, for $2.00 per
» acre. The island is located on the west side of the channel,
» west of Dokis Island.
EC He brought carpenters up from his firm of Dickie
; a Construction Company, of Toronto and they erected the

| main cabin in 1926. Extra sleeping cabins were added in 1933
| to 1936 for the women of the family (his wife Gwen,

daughter Elizabeth, and their cook Ida) when they started

Visiting the camp.

Originally the fishing camp was strictly a male camp where
| Edward, his sons David and Peter, and his many friends
| fromthe city, came on vacation. They used the cottage the

full summer season. :

The method of reaching camp was the usual of that time:
Drive to Parry Sound, take a room at the Belvedere Hotel,
catch the 3 a.m. train to Key Junction, and Jitney service
to the Harbour. From the Harbour they used a pointer boat
with a disappearing propeller to reach camp. Later they used
4 sturdy boat and 4 hp. motor.

Their supplies were purchased from Pete
at Key Harbour, milk was bought by the Bat
Caulfield’s Dairy, Parry Sound. Other supplies were sen
up from the renowned ‘‘Michie’s Groceries’ of Teens

Edward Dickie passed away in 1942. The family sol t .
“amp to Dutch H.W. Weis in 1946. Mrs. Dickie marils
ig D.B. Faulkner of Grace Harbour Newfoundland 1n

58. :

David, the eldest son, was killed in Italy when an ou
With the 48th Highlanders of Canada in 1944. Pee

“daughter, married J.L. Morris who resides in On in
,“' Dickie married Cynthia Heighinton. They We

Oron: )

SS Dame VA

Murray’s store
e case from

THE CLARKS, SHIP’S RAIL ISLAND

Alan Clark and family had their introduction to Key
Harbour while ona fishing and camping trip in August 1969.
Enthusiastic about the rugged scenery, the great fishing and
boating of the Key Harbour area, Alan and Barbara were
very interested to hear from a local source that the four-
acre island Ship’s Rail was available for purchase. While
still camping in the area on that first trip they decided to
make an offer to the Gairdner family. It was accepted and
they took possession of the island a month later.

Before coming to Key Harbour the Clarks were summer
residents on Lake Muskoka for many years. Alan was
President of the Muskoka Lakes Association from 1966 to
1970.

When asked by his Muskoka friends how he compares
Georgian Bay to Muskoka, his reply is always the same:
“You can’t compare them because they are, indeed, two
different worlds.”

The Clark family lived in Toronto until 1976. Upon Alan’s
retirement from business, he and Barbara moved to
Bracebridge, Muskoka.

Alan is a Director of the Georgian Bay Association and
was President of the Key Harbour Association from 1975
to 1979.

Ship’s Rail is open in May and is the gathering place
for the Clark family and friends throughout the summer
months. The five children and their families are: Alan Jr.,
wife Nora, and Kerry and Christopher living in Toronto;
Janet and husband David Paton, living in Vancouver;
Robert, wife Kaija, and Jennifer of St. Catharines; Bruce,
wife Nancy, of Toronto; and Douglas, Toronto.

DOCTOR ROSS - DOCTOR BANTING

Shortly after the turn of the century, Doctor Ross of
Toronto obtained a lot south of where Edward Dickie’s
cottage later was. Here he built a cottage for vacations. His
good friend, Doctor Banting, visited the cottage often on
fishing and hunting trips. After a number of years, Doctor
Ross allowed the cottage to be used by Doctor Banting.
When Doctor Ross died, he willed the cottage and property
to his nurse, Miss Blevins, of Kitchener, Miss Blevins os

———
LEED

