# OCR Result for IMG_4391 2023-10-17 12_45_38.HEIC

© back SECtion
nould boards
ight anq left
OT could Taise
about a foo
h side, about

ghs especially
) at each end
to. It did not
ad. The tank
DY a wooden
attached to
red the hole
vn a specially
as drawn by
‘holes’’ they
arrel to sink
y rise by the
ed retaining
It dumped
hole. This
ed.
) holes that
erating the
nto the rut
as put on
i out after
enly in the
lat as POS
ound stee
‘he reason
minate the
ve and 10
small are?
to pull bY
| cégype f
zaned 2

the road. Otherwise the manure would cause the slej

draw harder No) the horses could not keep them m : Gens tc
the excessive Weight of the loads. Sand was us ae a
srades tO slow down the Sleighs, eee
~ The Wilkinson snow

plow was a heavy affair wi
air w
plates on the bottom ee

of the Wings to
: : prevent them from
wearing down in use. It had supplementary wings that w

ysed to move the snowbanks as they got higher. Th

a large timber that connected the rear portion to hen

and another timber that extended from the rear called 4 h
ole’? where additional horses were hitched as ne ae

Although it lacked all of the attachments that they be

the modern plows today, it did a super job with i

mechanical trouble. =

——______

LOGGING SLEIGHS

The logging sleighs were built by hand, and made to carry
very heavy loads, Each bench or bunk, front and back, sat
about two-thirds of the way back from the front of the
runner, sO that the runners would not dig in at the front,
when loaded. The sleigh runners were about eight feet long.
The wood of the runners, on the bottom or sole side was
made with a concave in them of 1/4”? to 1/2”? below where
both benches or bunks were located on the runners. This
allowed the runner to straighten out, and act as a spring
spreading the load over the full length of the runner. This
prevented them from digging in under the bank. On the
bottom of each wooden runner, a half round steel slot was
fastened, keeping the sleigh from slipping sideways and
making it easier to pull.

The ‘‘Top Loader’’ was the man that decided when the:
load of logs was large enough and properly balanced. He
accomplished this by standing on top of the load and rock-
ing it to make sure it was not lopsided.

The logs were loaded by the use of a device they called
a‘‘jammer’’. It was a twin arm wooden affair with a large
block attached to the top and another at the bottom with
alength of cable and chains that lifted the logs up as the
load on the sleighs got higher. Those were the days when
/ men and horses did all the work and were proud of their
ability. Horses were used to lift the logs with the jammer.

Mr. Crozier remembers logs piled so high on sleighs they
would have to raise the telegraph wires at the Pakesley
| tailroad crossing to be able to cross the tracks. These loads
of logs from Pakesley and Lost Channel were the extra logs

cut for Schroeder Mills in the fall, that they could not
| Process through their mill. The logs were taken to Portage
| Lake, dumped on the ice, then in the spring they were made
into booms and towed down the Key River by Alligator barge
Or tugs to Key Harbour. From there, tugs towed booms to
Byng Inlet, Victoria Harbour, Sarnia and many other mills.
| We presume that some were used by C.M. Cane Company,
Toronto or Dickson Pencil Company at Key Harbour.

William Crozier remembers seeing a photograph of a
SIeighload of white pine saw logs some years ago in a barber
Shop in the village of Sundridge. The sleigh was used by
McFadden and Malloy camps back of Massey, and was said
0 contain 308 logs of various lengths and sizes on one team

cre

was
ont,

a ae was reputed to be the largest load from the

- a € feels the diesel truck drivers of today have no idea
oads compared to the loads a team of horses drew in,

those days on roads nothing like today’s good roads.

Loggers piling logs on river bank, pr
breakup and river log drive.

‘a ;
eparing for spring

oO

Log piling with horse, skids, chain and pulley.
Photos courtesy of Ontario Archives.

139

i” LY J
