# OCR Result for IMG_4308 2023-10-17 12_42_33.HEIC

friends like Jack Fee, Bob Hunter and family and Charlie
Quinn, would help around the camp when possible in
appreciation of Dr. Maybee’s generosity.

Dr. Maybee hada communication line :
bush from Pickerel River Station
to his camp. He receive
arriving.

In the early years of the camp he brought some guests
to camp by way of the Pickerel River outlet. Dr. Maybee
employed some of the best local Indian guides available, for
his guests. C harlie Thompson, one of the best guides, was
not only a guide, but an accurate “weather prophet’’ for
the camp. He seemed to know the signs so well. It was
uncanny how he could foresee weather conditions two or
three days in advance. His forecasts were generally correct.

Other Indian guides would move their families to the
north end of Dokis Island into summer tent camps. The
families would help out with the camp chores while father
was out guiding. Albert Wagamakie was also an excellent
guide for the camp. He lived for years at Bekanon. Albert
had a nephew to carry on the tradition in our area. He was
a well known guide, Ivan Kewakundo at Key Harbour and
Bekanon Henvey Reserve. :

In the 1920’s through to the 1940’s, the area around the
point had an abundance of deer, wild ducks, bears,
snowshoe rabbits and grouse, thus making it a sportsman’s
paradise.

The fishing in Dr. Maybee’s and Mr. Silbaugh’s time was
of course wonderful, with plenty of northern pike, walleye,
small and large mouth bass and calico bass. All these species
Were in approximately the same places or weed beds as they
are today, according to the water levels. The one species we
would like to have back in this portion of Georgian Bay is
the lake trout, like they had in those days. The lake trout
were most plentiful at what they called ‘““The South Bank’’
about ten miles south of the Bustard Islands. Dr. Maybee
made arrangements frequently with the Pillgrems to go along
with them when they went to lift their nets at the South
Bank. This gave his guests an opportunity to fish for lake
trout while the nets were being lifted and set. A number of
his guests who were excellent musicians made the long trip
to and from the fishing grounds more pleasant by playing
the instruments which they had brought along.

ine strung through the
and French River Station
d news of guests (some unwanted)

S

Doctor Maybee, Bob Hunter, catch of fish.

Indian family
that worked for
Maybee tenting
on Dokis Island.

Charlie Thompson
renowned Indian
guide and weather
prophet in the
19207s-30’s.

Maybee’s Camp had two large inboard guide boats as well
as other smaller Peterborough cedar strip fishing boats for
their guests. Two of the Doctors boats just disappeared, one
was a single cylinder and one double cylinder.

The guests reached the camp in the different ways
available at that time. After the jitney trip to the Harbour,
they would be met by camp employees and taken by camp
boats for the three mile trip to Maybee’s Point. Another
means was to disembark at Ludgate Station, and come down
the Key River by boat. This was an enjoyable scenic twelve
mile trip to camp.

In the late fall some years, the deer hunting parties would
have their usual way of leaving camp blocked by an early
fall freeze-up, when the inland bays and the river froze over.
If this happened, they had to walk out over a blazed but
rough trail for about eight miles. This trail led back to
Maybee’s Point east across to the end of Sand Bay to the

Maybee’s guests on shore lunch.

