# OCR Result for IMG_4333 2023-10-17 12_43_31.HEIC

Booths ¢ Key Harbour,
1927-1950

One of our pioneer summer residents.

Dr. Harold Simmons Booth with his wife Hazel took a
boat trip in 1926 originating in Parry Sound, visiting at
Pointe au Baril, then continuing north up the bay to the
mouth of the east branch of the French River. On their
return trip, southwest of Key Harbour they took particular
notice of one island that was still heavily treed with large
virgin pine. This aspect impressed Dr. Booth with its beauty
and rugged terrain.

On their return to Parry Sound, he purchased this island
or rather islands, as one person was only allowed to purchase
one six acre parcel. To be able to get the large island they
purchased two islands, one for Dr. Booth and the other for
his wife. They joined the two with a bridge making a twelve
acre parcel 1 & 2 D 367 of Parry Sound District. These two
islands had been missed or left out in the clean timbering
of the previous thirty years in the area and islands.

Their original cottage or central part was a prefab ordered
from T. Eaton Co. of Toronto and sent up. Leo Michaud
helped build the cottage in 1927. Dr. Booth built a porch
on. Later he added the kitchen, then enclosed part of the
porch as a bedroom. An icehouse was built by Leo Michaud.
He filled it each winter for the family’s use on summer

vacation.
Dr. Booth’s original interest in Ontario’s north country

came from his associate Dr. Tower of the Chemistry
Department of Case Western Reserve University in
Cleveland. Dr. Tower had a cottage on Lake George,
Muskoka. This was where Mrs. Booth would have preferred
to build their cottage, but Dr. Booth wanted a more remote
area with less people. He won out, and so the Key Harbour
area was chosen.
The following stories and activities of the Booth family
over the years at Key Harbour were related to the author
_by Marilyn (Booth) Opatrny.
Marilyn remembers the different modes of transportation
and ordering of their supplies over the years.
At first they drove from Cleveland to Toronto, ordered
their supplies from T. Eaton Company, took the CNR train

Booth cottage and boat dock :
82 ,

rb
vice to the Mee up
d their SUPE an
MichYS co
to their is
the summer

to Key Junction and the Jitney set
Leo Michaud would pick them an
boat. They would stay overnight at
next day Leo would take them
help open up their camp for
Later when the road reached Patty Hyer Oe oe at Kate
drove to Toronto to order supplies: ove gh Pan
Toronto to Parry Sound where they ae ar was left at ae
and Mae Spencer’s tourist home. i nction- ae
Sound Garage, then by © Re e jitney ervice, ee
travelling on the open cars Of * 4 or pears on tne
remembers someone would catty @ jet and Britt,
tracks. Eventually the road reache
then they drove up to Britt where 9 theif jsland.
with his cruiser and brought them oth fa mily came up to
In the years befor® we ee or the first week of

he last week © of September: In these

their camp either t gee
June, and stayed till the fee cudy cottages Dr. Booth

summer months in his ! his many books and
composed, worked on, and a only Sean
sand).
esearch papers (over qa thou / ne
nelpine him with his drawings and Ss y had
a heavy canvas sack OF mail bag;
i to
manuscripts and letters over
Post Office to be mailed to Cleveland.
As the mail came only s
would watch these days, ©4s

the mainland, then leave fort

goun® ve from

;chaud met them

take these many |
Pete Murray’s Key Harbour

everal days of the week, they |
tward, to sight train smoke on |
he Harbour in their boat. By

the time they reached Pete Murray’s, the mail run would |

usually be there from Key Junction.

Marilyn remembers they bought or ordered their supplies

from Pete Murray or T.
locally was not too great a variety. To this day she does not |

Eaton, sometimes the selection |

like canned evaporated milk, canned peaches or Argentine

tinned beef.

The Booths kept a smoke cured side of bacon in the |

kitchen which would become quite rancid before it was used
up. Marilyn will always remember the advent of dry ice 80
that the shipping of fresh meat was made possible.
Marilyn idolized Leo Michaud as a child. He helped wit!
the building of additions, guiding etc. The Booths stored
their equipment and boats at his camp when they closed

Booth guest house or study: sian
of bridge to study and Booth
children, 1939.

i
|
i
|

'
f

Marilyn r
experience a
in. In her £
“Lucky Cha
luck piece a
was a strong
age, but she
drifted ever

All throug
the carburet
Successful ay
motor goin:

In the me
Noticed the
the Booths \

ane youn;
Other wit}

