# OCR Result for IMG_4335 2023-10-17 12_43_34.HEIC

Cottages West and South of Key Harbour

STAHLE ¢° QUEENIE ISLAND, KEY HARBOUR
1946 - PRESENT

Wilfred ‘Bill’? and Ada Stahle have five children: Jean,
Wayne, Carol, Bruce and James. The Stahles reside in
Waterloo.

Bill Stahle was introduced to Key Harbour by Clinton
Currie who had lived at Ludgate and sometimes guided for
Lytes. In 1946 Clint Currie worked with Bill Stahle in Kit-
chener, twin city of Waterloo. Their conversations would
frequently turn to fishing. Currie told Bill many times of
the off-the-beaten-track wilderness area for fishing at Key
Harbour. Clint wished very much to return to the area for
his holidays but had no transportation.

Bill agreed to take him to the Key if Clint would reveal
his fishing spots in his favourite corner of Georgian Bay.

There were four in the first trip party: Bill Stahle, Elmer
(Chick) Allensen, Wayne Stahle and Clint Currie. They
made the long, tiresome trip to Britt in Bill’s 1929 Ford sedan
loaded down with spare tires, tents and equipment tied on
the back, front and side ina running board luggage carrier.

Tied on the top was a boat. In 1946 the road, Highway 69,

ended at Britt.

Arriving at Britt they engaged George Wright of Wright’s
Transfer Service to take them up to the Key Harbour area
to find a tenting spot.

After a new experience and exciting trip from Britt, they
were approaching Queenie Island, south of Dokis on the Britt
to Key Harbour channel, when Mr. Wright out of the blue
asked them ‘‘Where do you want to get off?’’ As Bill said,
“Holy Cow’’, where do you get off when you are not near
a dock or at least a shore?”’ They took a look at the east

side of Queenie and on the spur of the moment decided it
was a possible camping spot. George Wright put them and
their gear off on shore and said he would pick them up at
this spot in a week and waved goodbye.

The group had one of the most rewarding experiences of
their lives, just a forerunner of many more to come. The
next few years Bill came with Wayne, the eldest boy. As the
other boys grew older, they also wanted to come.

It was not long until Ada Stahle wanted to see this much
talked of ‘‘God’s Country’ and she soon became addicted
to the aesthetic and sports aspects of northeastern Georgian
Bay.

Between camping trips the Stahles first stayed at MacLeod’s
Camp: MacLeod at first, had only one cottage for rent. Also
at this time Bill’s brother-in-law, Milton Demeuleneare
asked them if he could go along on the next trip. Although
Milton was not a fisherman he was captivated by the area’s
charm,

When Demeuleneare described his trip and experiences
to eae (Bernice, Nancy, Brent and Judy) they all
wanted to come. Bill’s si
Soon there Se cies tamil eee ae a ld

y group spending their holida
at the Key. The gear and equipment needed i :
larger and heavier, and the children ae getting
and Milton called their families t were growing up. Bill

S together to discuss pooling

84

resources to try bui
Island, if they could purchase it fr

yeenie

e op
lding their ow? Cou ent: After
om the CO ae outh half

(Z
le to purchase ail jn 1956.

much difficulty they were ab ;
of Queenie Island. They obtained a perm umber in
They purchased a precut cottage On m there NS
Parry Sound that was shipped to Bae on bis fishing U8.
Wright loaded and hauled it to Queem™ ou not jand to
hat the first trP Bos plazel. He

The trouble was t
unload due to roug
returned to Britt and ‘

‘Il started for Britt an :
ee washed out the roads and his trailer and
was forced to buy another On® in a ‘hey tented and

While the family was pbuilding the Soave lovely cot-
camped on the island. The Stahles a heir children and
tage and spend a lot of time there wi

grandchildren.

In the late seventies 07 the August
Stahle was fishing alone southwes
side islands when he developed mot
too heavy to paddle against 4 strong
drifted south till he landed on a7 island

When Bill did not return by dark or
Stahle flagged down a passi
to Cam-A-Key Resort. From
Harbour area residents an
As Bill had not told her w
searchers covered from Bustar

and south. Harold Aalto in his cruiser,

ane
h water from Lae Jater- Also,
had to make another trip days. The
a Lae ake it f0 three
didn’t m proke down. He

or trouble. His boat was

ds to Fox Bay, Key Harbour

that helped in the search and rescue from a night on the
rocks.

FOWLER * KEY HARBOUR, 1937 - PRESENT

Gordon and Eileen Fowler must qualify as two of the early

tourist cottagers in the Key Harbour area. As a young mal
Gordon spent successive summer holidays in the Pointe 2
Baril district on solitary camping trips.

es married Eilien Fiegehen in 1939 and in 1940 in-
troduced his new bride to Georgian Bay’s rugged scenic tant:
scape, taking her on a three-week partial camping trip }

holiday weekend, Bill
t of Queenie on the out- }

north wind, so he |
near the Churchills, /
next morning Mrs, ;
ng boat and they brought her |
there with help from all the Key |
d fishermen, 2 search was begun. |
hich direction he was going, the |

searching the out- |

side island south of Dokis spotted Bill’s boat and rescued |
him. Bill and his wife are most grateful to the many people |

ing the hotel’s floored, side walled tents with well equiph® |

furnishings. In succéeding years they stayed at OjibW4)

Hotel.

After s ee
even years visiting the Pointe au Baril area it bee” |
ott |

to pall and the F :
1 the Fowlers cast an eye about for more rem

wilderness <
areas to explore. They noticed an advertisem”
the |

for the
newly opened ‘Key Harbour Lodge’. From

aesthetic a ;
nd wilderness descriptions offered they reser |

oe vacation in 1944 at the Lodge
$ er a ry +A} + :
CNR trip from Toronto to Key Junction:

by Jitney sery}
. Ser te)
¥ Service to the Harbour - which was an exper

- they arriv :
the ee Harbour Lodge to discover they ’
: guests of the Lytes. Mr. ; oe darts
Preceded them by only a aay Mr, and Mrs. AC
a di:

vel
ha

v

d

f

hens |

Mr. and
early 1950’s
jn via Britt

They bou
tage on it t

Jack’s wi
was an elect
They have

E]

Fred Oli
AE1020 sor
years, has
“Alcatraz’?
The Ellis
Bigger Sask
there they ,
In 1955 ¢
friends fro
Started to |
Night in the
Was Not tog
Nghts_ The
