# OCR Result for IMG_4412 2023-10-18 18_56_06.HEIC

Grave

Photo of the mill prior to 1912
GRAVES BIGWOOD AND COMPANY LUMBER
MILL © BYNG INLET, 1902-1928
By Bessie McLaughlin, Byng Inlet
The Graves Bigwood sawmill, which was to become the
second largest mill of its kind in Canada, was built and com-
pleted by 1902 at Byng Inlet. Its owners then were Holland
and Graves. The size of the mill and its facilities was huge;
it covered one square mile.

Holland and Graves first cut timber on their timber Tights
property in 1894 and brought log booms down the
Magnetawan River, At the start of the mill’s Operation, the
lumber products were going out by boat as the railroad had
not reached Byng Inlet.

Holland Graves employed 1,250 people at th
company’s short life, with a total town po
the majority of these people being
pany and its associated businesses.

There were many features of the mill:
green lumber yard, planing mill,
steam power, many docks, slips,

€ start of the
pulation of 4,200,
employed by the com-

a large lumber yard,
11 woodfired boilers for
Other related buildings

160

Bigwood and Company Lumber Mill ° Byng Inlet
s Bigw

oan, te

OF Page:
ee: a Dim : et Ngee Be S
Courtesy of Ontario

and the very important box factory close by.

More and more people came to the Byng Inlet area by
Sailing ship to work in the many aspects of the mill in those
early years.

In the spring of 1912, the original mill burnt down but
was rebuilt that fall. At this time Mr. Holland, of Holland
and Graves, sold out and a Mr. Woods bought into the com
Pany which changed its name to ‘Graves Bigwood a"
Company Lumber Mill’”,

By 1912, with the Canadian Pacific Railroad completed
to Byng Inlet and beyond to Sudbury with connections "
Noe Bay, the lumber from Graves and Bigw00 a
shipped out by rail. Every two days 15 box-cats containins
'5000-20,000 board feet of lumber left the mill. Mos! ®
this lumber went to the Spanish River northeast of Sudbury:

After rail service reached Byng Inlet, the mill brought thel!
Mie Ply of logs in from ther cutting properties UP
Begs tWan River. But most of it came from Poin

aril and Six Mile Lake areas on the railway flat-cal:

(Continued on nex

: eer
Archives

{ pas ¢)

adit ccna aa oe

(Graves Bi,
In the y
operated, E
a hotel v
(Presbyteri
CPR static
There was
vide enter
With th
stable and
the railwa
In the
General S$
variety of
store deal
to their «
which th
other rec
To the
with one
located \
Timbe
closed di
mill was
types of
to obtail
mills. TI
houses |
Those w
house a

