# OCR Result for IMG_4397 2023-10-17 12_45_52.HEIC

Ass
SS

all
ley

he

It

a
eee

paniel Hurd, the youngest, married Lind
ted live in Orillia. They h
ie,

cassandra
pouglas Hurd passed away suddenly
une 19, 1979. Doug’s widow,

a Armstron
: ; ‘ g and
ave two children: Ricky and

See in Parry Sound on
, ae aS y, 1S a teacher and
jteer missionary with the As: ies iberi

o ee ssemblies of God, Liberia,

wilmot Hurd married Audrey Latimer from Sudb

october 19, 1949. They have one daughter Mann a
roronto: Wilmot and Audrey are now tetired and The :
giill River on Highway 69. -

Left to right, Wilmot Hurd, sister Ethel (Mrs. Latour) and
Douglas Hurd, 1935.

THE GOOD OLD DAYS AT LUDGATE
(As told by Bud McQueen)

During the 30’s and early 40’s, first Charlie Harris, then
Doug and Wilmot Hurd ran the store and tourist camp at
Ludgate. The activities at the camp in those days were all
good old homemade fun and tricks. These included Henry
Long dressing up as a full-bosomed woman, entering the
passenger train when it stopped at Ludgate. He would kiss
(with heavy lipstick) all the bald male passengers on the
train. Alf Gange, dressed in an old policeman’s uniform,
followed behind writing out complaints. Bob Hunter would
meet the train in the early morning in top hat, cane and
nightgown. Bud wonders what the passengers thought of

this greeting.
There was always a yearly fi

games, picnics and the homema

after lots of good food.
The men went fishing at 5

Island from Ludgate, returning tire
Elinor Long and the other ladies had put rocks 1n their beds,

switched salt and suga!, sewed up paar ee Pi
colouring in the drinking water, etc: Bob u Ce
nephew Bud McQueen to throw rocks on the ¢ ee
and pour pails of water in oe door at 7-30 a.m. to 2
at the ladies for their UrICKS- 2 :
whee someone came for the first ene
expecting modern things, everyone hee ae ee
about the Friday night movies at Pakesley Ce
They would even dress up and walk them a = ae
on the bush road before telling the victims it wa:

eld day with races, baseball
de ice cream to end the day

a.m. until 8 p.m.-, out to Dead
d and hungry only to find

If someone got married
treatment wit}

for the trip f

Tom or to Pakesley. wagon

Hurd’s Ludgate Honeymoon special at Pakesley.

A flagpole and weathervane were erected in 1941 at
Ludgate by the ‘‘Five Button Hole”’ Liars Club. After Hurds
moved and Ludgate was abandoned, Bob and Jack Fee
brought the pole and vane to Key Harbour and erected them
there. The flagpole is still in use at Bob Hunter’s cottage.
Bud McQueen, Bob’s nephew, has been coming to the area
with his uncle since 1929, and now resides at Key Harbour.

At Ludgate over the years the mail arrived twice a week
on a mixed freight and passenger train. Postmaster before
the store would, we presume, be Thompson Ludgate
Company, later: Waites, Harris and then the Hurd Brothers.

A Mr. Dinwoody was employed in the car shops of CNR
at Stratford, Ontario. After retiring he built a cottage at
Ludgate close to Harris’ place. He passed away several years
ago. Mr. Pearson of Hamilton owns Dinwoody’s now.

John Brickenridge of Ludgate was a pensioned conductor
and bought the John Jones cottage located just west of CNR
Key Bridge, north side of the tracks between them and Key
Bay. Mr. Jones had been a log scaler and was related by
marriage to Messrs. Harris and Herb Thompson. The
former Jones cottage is now owned by B. Aitchinson.
Another cottage resident in the 30’s and 40’s was Mr. Fox
who previously had been a conductor on the Way-freight

train.

Z x $ a te. cy cee
Ho nelas and Dorothy Hurd, Ludgate, 1942.

145
