# OCR Result for IMG_4369 2023-10-17 12_44_55.HEIC

ME BUILDERS *

f I de | d : Cottage
istS fOr her homem . { ’ ;
d tourls Ss a Variety iy | Buil (Z ; 1

ers an

to cottag : Y ondol
from A

en and Al Draisey

ff the
d cottage area, 0 sat for all.
A modem u Bo-date 1es0h AUS cox Way a tre oS
beaten track sales down the Key Rivet from High 2Y ‘There are motor mechanics if required for emergeng,. | sb 4 of ud
> f main small boat channel. a telephone and mail out service. Many canoers and catiee Hse 6) ani Os ossan (dece
0 gsc), -puckle, VYTRE ‘

There are many modern cottages in fhe | ec?
slands. Northeastern Georgian Bay js ito, ee perby 1978. Every spring
i]

ful variety of fishing and its rugged Windsye, } (ne, gishing and to open th
Pickett me to the cotte

visit the area.
and outlying i
for its wonder
scenery:

69, and a mile east O

Key Harbour has a well marked deep channel
to the Harbour, making access asy for yachts, tes
sailboats. The travelling tourist and boaters will fin Be
modern tourist resorts, with well stocked stores, mar

e + own KEE ees
service, and pump out servi Trott is well kn - Families EO

ce. Agnes

BIEDERMAN ° I

o Key Harbour ir
f London.
ae Biedermans bought lot I
had their cottage built in 196
art married Eileen McGow
sonia. Sonia married Gerald
have seven children: Ken, De
James and William. The Fort
with Art and Eileen.
The Biedermans spend six n
and six months in London, t
Art is a lifetime barber of

Wally Westerburg of Toronto now of Chicago
| with pike, Cam-A-Key Resort, 1964.

BUCK e KEY

ia J. Buck and his wife
. nner cottage on the so
cs eee cottage was a
P Henry by Deek and Li

the cotta:
e ;
| the Ce one of his boat

aera f Y |
i

Jack Bodamer, Jessie ie wih 18 lb. pike caught in
5 : ront
of ‘‘Key Harbour Lodge”’. ‘ Ue:

[se
The b
Wayne Campbell with 22 lb. pike he caught in 1969. } Aalto fare oe able to att
: | a itions t
the oO the
a cotta Y Purchased adjoini

= ©n it for them.
ny | Mar and Shirley Buck ;
®. = | > Marilyn (Barrett)

Alb
tw

H BROWN « k
anu Bill” Brown
Near tes Of years
then m Celville in 1¢
: ade his first tri
Years Im in 1958. Th
Vich? . © first fam:

and camped o1

Re

A nice catch of pickerel (walleye) 1976

centre, Cy Blais right, J Left s ee
; » John Drag ob Pri
from Ailsa Crai raaisma, B ice,
e raig. 0b and John are Notun ae aes _ th 1964 tchased.
Ree n Campbell with a large pik® eit tom + S ce awin Aalto di
now Diamond Key Resort. Rr Sel can
Itt, A ae Edwin bi

S >
SW ater w

