# OCR Result for IMG_4357 2023-10-17 12_44_28.HEIC

106

ROUGH ICE

H
“NT FALLS T
o DEATH

Emily Murray

KEY HARBOUR RESID
AND FREEZES T
As related by
n supplied by: Art :
vyhen a Finns

Lahti, and George Kivinen

Other informatio . h lad de

ily Murray remembers ast end 0
scree to death, while skating on the erly noticed,
Whistler Bay. The year was 1932. Peter a two people
from the window in their Moose Bay 10)
skating down Whistler Bay past Otte :
thought nothing of it at the time. After mu fe

seems the story is fairly accurate about two Finn
Onnie Hanninen and Lauri Jokinen. me van ade
building on the approach to the ore dock on the eee hey
of the power house, at the Harbour. In the sum ee

worked for local commercial fishermen and did some V

ice fishing, selling their catches to local oe faa
This fateful day they decided, rather than g0 byt 7 ee
way to Key Junction following the tracks, they wou a

up Whistler Bay on the good ice. When they reache
top of the Bay they planned to walk the short distance to
the tracks, then to the Junction. Their skates were
homemade, fastened to their shoes.

When they reached the far end of the bay, one Or both

went through thin ice. Hanninen managed to save himself
and go for help to Leo Michaud’s camp at the Harbour.
Hanninen and Leo returned to the spot as quickly as
possible, towing or pushing a small boat hoping to rescue
Jokinen and save themselves at the same time. They found
Lauri Jokinen had frozen to death. The body had a large
hunting knife frozen solid in its hand. It was presumed he
was using it to try to save himself by jabbing it in the ice
to pull himself out and onto the solid ice.

His frozen corpse was taken back to the Harbour. The
authorities advised them to keep it there until they would
be able to get it in by rail in the early spring. They placed
the body in the boxcar that had previously been Pete
Murray’s living quarters, back of the power house.

When Pete and Emily were making a trip to the Junction
from their cabin in early March, they stopped at his former
residence to rest, not knowing about the body. Pete went
inside first, saw the body, still frozen with the knife in its
hand. Pete tactfully stopped Emily from going inside.

h residents,
lived in 4

Konsta Pukkila and friend cutting ice alongsia,
ode Coal dock

Konsta Pukkila, 1948 : |
KONSTA PUKKILA ¢ KEY HARBOUR, 152045 |
(As told by Emily Murray and her daught, |
Emily Pillgrem)
Konsta came to Canada from Finland in 1905 a the
of nineteen. He worked in and around Sudbury jy, |
Nickel mines, building railroads and doing other jobs. ¢}
1930 he came to Key Harbour to work at commercial fi!
for John Lahti, and later for Gauthier Fisheries,
Konsta moved into a small house that Mr. and \h’
Holoneni had previously built on an island on the wet
of Finn’s Channel, near Aalto’s. Konsta lived there theya}
round till the Masters bought the island from i)
Government. i
From 1930 through to 1955, Konsta worked at commc=|
fishing, spring and fall for Lahtis and Gauthiers. In sunt
months he guided, built cottages, and worked on tepals
summer cottagers. He was a good carpenter and helpel™
Master’s cottage and additions to Laz-a-Long. Ht}
with Dr. Downer’s place, Mackecknie’s and the bull
MacLeod’s Camp. He became well known and liked
in the area. One or two winters he worked a #™
caretaker at Gauthier’s Bad River camp.
Konsta became a close friend of the Murra)s a
many years. Emily Murray recalls that he alv®!™
ee and New Years with them. At least ae
Ne a ough the winter, he would have suppe vate
supper he and Pete would play their fave
of Cribbage y
nae ee Konsta helped Pete put ic in rene
a oe ies, Dr. Booth, MacLeod’s Camp:
: Or three others.
After the M
he Obtaine

We TR RATE

<a eet ES

we

asters bought the island his cotlaet
d property just east of the old

(Continuee ont

eS

ia
til ten o’clock, Then Konsta woule™ 2)

We
2 |

powel oi

Key
dson oe
resi ent ee
s
q BO" peit cat oe
wil ui av was on : #
pat : until 191 Le
5ea5 situated slig :
pous’ - ilding iS or
cn | years 1917-1
ys e returned tc
1919 In the W!
un fice. After
ae d. He ret
pate Hudson fai
i _ Dave and
Dect over the y
$
Sine years Dave H
and after he
Harbour
One of these officers
After his retiremen
purchased the Coste!

Lyte. He improved |
He and his family sps
the cottage back to tl
py. Dave then staye
till recent years whe
he was unable to co
DAVI

Dave’s father, Rol
the Province of Que
Mary McFarland in |
came to Carling Tov
old. Robert and Ma:
David, John, Roy ¢
Dave Hudson, bo

at age 92. In 1913 he
Keiven who came tc
1877. His wife Agne
township in 1863. T
4 daughter Reta (N
oan Worked on}
und in 1907-g. He
Wision until 1912
Sty Sound”

