# OCR Result for IMG_4280 2023-10-17 12_41_29.HEIC

ilage.

MOUTH
ne area in 1957,
w Hut
four summers,
WN COttage.
he east side of
11S parcel was
>re the original

- to build their

enda Burge of
‘en are Sarah,

4

|, Ohio, wert
riend in 1954
y in Georgia”

1 and stayed
sy fell in lov"
nd on which

d
yecame Ee

s thelr oa
Hers der ne
jslane- 4
eas!

slik

=jgil
and sif
n,@

(French River Cottagers continued)

PEACOCK e GEORGIAN BAY
Howard Peacock from Mayfield Heights, Ohio, bought
an island just south of the Fisher’s island in the early 1960's.
Charlie Fisher built their cottage for them assisted by the

family. Members of the family visit the cottage each
summer. é

SOLOMON e GEORGIAN BAY

Len Solomon first became interested in the area through
Ralph Harter’s group, from Cleveland, who purchased
Georgian Bay Camp from Gregory and Greek in 1930.

When Harter wanted to sell the camp, he asked Mr.
Solomon if he wished to purchase it, but Solomon de-
clined. The Solomons purchased the next island west of the
camp for $50. They soon built their first cabin on the island
and moved in.

It was a problem at that time to reach the Bay without
a great deal of effort, as Bass Creek tramway was in poor
condition. Len Solomon rebuilt the tramway to get his
material for the cottage to the island. He also transported
boats and equipment on it. The family came by CNR to
Pickerel Station, from there by boat to Bass Creek, then used
the tramway to reach the Bay.

Later, Len Solomon purchased an adjacent island and
eventually built another cabin on it. The Solomons were
summer residents for years.

Mr. Solomon died and Mrs. Solomon sold the islands to
the Fullers in 1970. Mrs. Solomon and her daughter live near
Cleveland.

FULLER ¢ GEORGIAN BAY

The Fullers first heard about Georgian Bay and its
absence of black flies when they were scouting for a cabin
up north in the Timmins area. In 1970 they visited the
Solomon’s Island which was for sale, liked what they saw
and were lucky to be able to purchase it.

The Fullers are Glenn and Beverely of Berea, Ohio. They
have three children: Gail, Glenna and Larry. Gail married
Dean DeMattio. Their children are Ryan and Karen.

Id Timer’s Camp”.

PETE NEWTON
1892 - TO PRESENT
FRENCH RIVER MOUTH, PICKEREL RIVER,
GEORGIAN BAY, KEY RIVER e

Peter Joseph Newton is one of our eldest living residents
of the Key Harbour area in 1982.

Peter Newton’s father and mother (Pierre and Claudia)
first came to the French River Mouth, at the time of Wabb
Town, Coponaning and French River Village. Pierre
came to work in one of the phases of the lumber companies,
in the late 1800's.

Pete was born at Coponaning in 1892. The family for a
period of time lived just south of where the McIntosh place
1s, across the small bay. He attended school at French River
Village from 1897 until 1900 when they moved to Pickerel
River Station area. Peter lived there until he was married
in 1918. From 1946 till 1960 the Newtons lived at CPR
Pickerel River crossing area.

Over the years Pete was a fishing guide in the summer,
and trapped furs in the winter months. He also worked in
lumber camps around Pickerel River area and further north.

In 1950 the Newtons built a tourist and fishing camp they
called the “‘Old Timers’ Camp’’. It is located on an island
on the main channel from Fox Bay to French River Mouth.
They ran the camp for ten years. Leonard, one of the sons
guided for their own camp and also for Rainbow Camp,
Bass Creek, close by. Pete and Leonard were both excellent
guides over the years.

In 1957 Pete built himself a comfortable home at Key
River and Highway 69. In 1960 he sold the camp and retired
to his home on the river where he has resided till recently.
His wife, (Rose) passed away in May 1972.

Peter and Rose Newton’s family are Irene (Mrs. John
Sprungle) of Cleveland, Ohio; Blanche (Mrs. Ken
Mayberry) living in British Columbia; Loretta (Mrs. Ronald
Baynes) of Ottawa; Lillian (Mrs. Frank Salerno, widowed)
in Parry Sound. Ron Percy works at construction and lives
in Lively. Leonard lives in Parry Sound and works there for
the Board of Education. The other son, Bert, died in 1947.

Os

Mr. and Mrs. Pete Newton and young friend.

\& a

