# OCR Result for IMG_4399 2023-10-17 12_45_53.HEIC

© Tailroaq
Teats with

area. One
erailed jts
ereal, had
1 guard at
“I’m not
cannot do
lis chance
of cereal,
had their

children;
k, Helen,
li passed
to James
1 died in

RIVER
‘sas a
Taylor.

re Alan
Ronald,
ck until
yntarlo-
Georg’
He then
and her
ich the
Je sold
couvel:
gitcell

san Mitchell’s father-in-law, Charle
nar Taylor, bought two lots from the G
0") on the north side of the Key River

\
W
)

S Taylor and
Overnment (300’

r Highway 69 in 1949, Alan first Bue aoe
g

pst Of
"an, owned lately by Archie Winch
it built ULES Ole! colsecs tn Toso nevi es
ysed OVE! the years by the Taylor/Mitchel] families a
spree men built a total of five cottages. 8.
alan and Eileen came to the Key River again in 1952, Th
_ gen built a cottage on his lot in 1954, One of the original
aylor oO - a In use today by his grandson Ron id
| fitchell and his wife Patricia (nee Campbell), Mr, and Mi
jeules Mazure now own the other two ete rs,

TAYLOR FAMILY ¢ KEY RIVER
Mr. Charles Taylor came from England to Falconbridge

| jn 1930. He started up the first smelter for Falconbridge in

1930 and worked his way up to become superintendent of
the Falconbridge smelter. He retired in 1963.
Charles married Elma Jarvis in 1924. They had six

- children; Ronald, Sylvia, Eileen, Kenneth, Leonard and

Lily.
Mr. Taylor resided in Sudbury most of his life. Charles
died in November, 1981.

MAZURE ¢ LUDGATE, 1926-1934

Lifetime residents of Key River-Ludgate area, Mike
Mazure and his wife Telka and family moved from Sault
Ste. Marie to Cranberry Station in 1926. Mike worked for

| the CNR on maintenance of this section of the track.

The Mazures lived across Portage Lake from Bert Currie.

| There were three children: Jeules, Rose and Leona. They

received their schooling in Sault Ste. Marie.

Mike and Telka moved from Cranberry to Sudbury in 1934
to work for the CPR. In 1961 they moved to Windsor. Telka
Mazure died in 1965, and Mike in 1968.

JEULES ‘“‘CAPTAIN SILVER’’ MAZURE ° KEY RIVER

Jeules, when old enough, worked one year in 1927 for
Schroeder Lumber Mills at Pakesley. In 1928 he went sailing
on the Great Lakes working on grain boats for three years.
When he worked on the lake boats he returned each fall to
Ludgate after shipping season closed. There, he trapped and
hunted in the winter months.

Jeules was married in 1938 to Mabel Berrard of Capreol.
Jeules and Mabel had three children: Barbra, Jim and Don.
Mrs. Mazure passed away in 1946. Jeules remarried in io
to Helen Leitch, who had a family of four by her pines
Marriage: Victor, David, Karen and Janna. Helen an eu

have a daughter Cyndy.
The Mae noah a lot in 1948 on the ane a
of the first narrows below the highway ane nae 1960.
cottage. They sold the cottage and lot to ae ee ind
At this time they purchased their present on ag eye aided
lot from Charles Taylor close by: nee ae it the year
to and improved it substantially. They now u
round and enjoy a fine garden each year. Lo pedeice
As a young man Jeules recalls an me Be cole
he had when, with others in the area, he help

tryi
ave Bert Currie’s eldest son’s body. He was
HE CERT 2 watt Spring fishing on the Little Key where
amen i crosses south of Ludgate. The searchers used
eu OW away portions of the tiverbank and tree
: ere they felt the body had lodged.
ivan ee Bert Currie take the last log boom
eee a Key River to Key Harbour in 1932. They
oye ae ere 69 Highway crosses. It took them eight
mee : oe west wind. The logs, loaded onto a
eae at the Harbour, were towed to Midland to be
Jeules guided for Leo Michaud in 1934, and remembers
well some of Michaud Inn’s prominent guests in those years:

HOSSAN ¢ KEY RIVER

Alwyn Hooson bought a lot from his uncle Charles Taylor
in the first narrows and built his cottage in 1964,

Cet ee Falconbridge Nickel and Burwash
- He and his family spend most of the
summer at their cottage.
LALONDE e KEY RIVER
The Lalonde family on the first narrows down the river.
Xyste Lalonde came to the Key first in 1955. He bought a
lot (and cottage) which was built in the late 40’s. He passed
away in 1978. His brother Leandre Lalonde inherited the
camp and property which is located next to the Mortimer
cottage. The family spend summer vacations there. Leandre
married Rita (Lapointe) November 28, 1927. They have
seven children: Jacques, Joanne, Celine, Carmen, Normand,
Francine and Claudette.
WAGNER ¢ KEY RIVER

Orvil Wagner and his wife Arlie are from West Milton,
Ohio.

Orvil first came to Key River to visit a friend, Oral Adams,
in July 1969. He bought the old Taylor homestead on the
north side of the river, at First Narrows, in 1969. They lived
in the original log cabin until he built a large home in
1975. The Wagners have two daughters, Arlene (Mrs. Fox)
and Shirley (Mrs. Long) both of Ohio.

CHAPMAN @ KEY RIVER

This log cottage was built by the Hugo brothers from
Newmarket in 1947. Few cottages were on the Key at this
time.

The Hugo brothers (first names unknown) were
newspaper editors of a weekly tabloid. One of the brothers
was a notable artist. Some Key River residents still have
paintings and carvings by this local artist.

When they became too old to come to their cottage, It

was put up for sale in the early 1960’s. A group named the
“Sporting Investors”, from London area, purchased the
cottage and property. The group consisted of J.R.
Chapman, F. Craig, A. Earl, G. Ross, T.G. Lloyd, A.D.
Curran and J. Robinson.

They added a frame sleeping quarters, apart from the
cottage, shortly after the purchase, but did not alter a
original architecture of the log cottage. The group visits their

cottage often.
In the late 70’s the pro

and David Chapman an

perty was turned over to Eric, J ohn

d their friend, Rodger Curran.
147

