# OCR Result for IMG_4407 2023-10-18 18_56_02.HEIC

Ire

as
on
Ke
1€
6)

WRIGHT'S TRANSFER SERVICE
upoat Taxi’ from Britt to Key Harbou

T, 1948-1952,
n 1948 George Wright of Britt

¢ : Started his transf ‘
vice ro rath to Camp Henry outer ane ser-
wichaud’s Inn". Key Harbour Lodge at Key H ae
ihe farthest north they ran. Y Harbour was

in 1947 eae had a new steel c
wilt by Russel Hipwell Boat Bui

a tug, named **Sea Gull’’, cee oe The
diesel. It was the first diesel-powered hshing Gon
Georgian Bay. When George brought the ee oat on
owen Sound back to Britt he loaded on board sage from
of diesel fuel in drums. At that time it cost 9¢ per ie

The Wrights used “‘Sea Gull III’? and a gasoline- ae
jaunch on their transfer runs. The cheap diesel an) a
the ‘‘Sea Gull”” very economic for the taxi freight ae

Their gasoline launch was old and Mr. Wright hada se
poat built by Cliff Richardson, a Meaford boat builder. This
new and large launch was 29” long with a beam of 91/2"
It was powered by a 100 hp. Kermath engine. They named
it ‘Sea Bee.’

In 1948 tourist fishermen and hunters could drive only
as far north as Britt where highway 69, (mostly gravel)
ended. Wright’s transfer customers either drove to Britt or
came by train and were picked up at the station.

There were two trips a day from Britt to Key Harbour,
one leaving 7:00 a.m. from Britt and one at 4:00 p.m. A
round trip ticket cost $6 per person to the Harbour, $4
per person to Camp Henry. The transfer service also car-
ried freight and supplies for their customers and the camps.
It was most convenient for all concerned.

In 1950 George withdrew his tug Sea Gull from the ser-
vice to go back to commercial fishing. From 1950 to 1952
they used the ‘‘Sea Bee’’ and another gasoline launch for

* BRITT

ommercial fishing tug

taxi service.
By 1952 highway 69 was completed to Key River making

access by boat to Key Harbour more convenient. The
transfer business was not economical to run and was

discontinued.

Camp Henry purchased the “Se
transporting their guests and supplies until the Streets sold

the camp in 1974 to private Owners. The ‘‘Sea Bee’’ was in
dry dock at Edwin Aalto’s for a number of years at Key

Harbour, then refloated again in

<<Sea Bee’’ and used it for

1972:

WRIGHTS COMMERCIAL FISHERMEN ° BRITT
1923-1960

The Wrights were commercial fishermen ou Be
Carson Stinson Wright and his son Cece is ee
1923-1960 and belonged to the Co-Op oa oe iy
fished with gill nets, 42000 yards between ea

the Bustard Islands.

Carson Stinson Wii
Mary Edith Devitt of Thornbury. They

George C. Wright, born in Collinevees
John Wright, born February 9, 171%

Collingwood, married
have two sons,
914, and Arthur

ght born in

dm

“Sea Gull IIT”’ ferry used on transfer service from Britt to
Key Harbour, 1946 and 1947.

