*** PROCESSED ***

# OCR Result for IMG_4252 2023-10-17 12_40_36.HEIC

The French River

By Robert Boudignon

Though the Indians who roamed Ontario several hundreds of years ago no doubt had a name for
the waterway that led them to and from the Georgian Bay, it was not till Champlain travelled the river
in 1615 that it became known to the white man and was given the name of ‘la riviere des frangais’.

After Champlain’s discovery of this waterway to the West, there followed in his steps between 1629
-and 1649 the many Recollet and Jesuit Fathers who went to live amongst the Huron Indians. Fathers
Breboeuf and Lallemand were two of the Martyrs of Fort Ste. Marie, who met their death at the hands
of the Iroquois Indians, deadly enemies of the French and the Hurons. The [roquois at the time controlled
most of the lands surrounding the lower Great Lakes.

Then came the explorers. Some were men of the cloth, such as Jean-Louis Hennepin, Dollier de Casson,
Renee de Galinee and Jacques Marquette. Others were the ‘coureurs de bois’ or traders: Jean Nicolet,
Pierre Raddison, des Groseilliers, la Verendrye and his sons, to name a few — all with great courage
and determination, travelled the French River, to explore ‘le pays d’en haut’.

There followed too, the English explorers: Simon Fraser, David Thompson, Alexander MacKenzie,
Alexander Henry and many others — some on their own, and others in the employ of the great fur
trading companies — the Hudson’s Bay Company and the North West Company.

Of the fur traders and the brigades of canoes which travelled back and forth on the river for many
years, much could be and has been written.

The Portages

This river, some 60 miles long, full of grandiose beauty and treacherous rapids, was for many years
the only route to and from the West which could be travelled safely by these early voyageurs. After

many days of hard paddling and difficult portaging up the Ottawa River from La Chine (Montreal)
to the height of land near Mattawa, it was with little effort that they crossed Lake Nipissing and travelled
down the French River to ‘la mere douce’. On the return trip, the portages on the river were taken
lightly in the knowledge that the Ottawa River and the long stretch home was all downstream.

What stories could be told of these early travellers — the correspondences and messages they carried
back and forth, telling of their trials and tribulations, of their discoveries and defeats .. .

