# OCR Result for IMG_4305 2023-10-17 12_42_26.HEIC

the cottage for a few years and took Doctor Ross’ brot her,
Judge Ross, to the cottage a number of times on vacation,
The cottage became too much trouble for her fo handle, and
she sold it to Jim Gairdner in 1963. :

Sir Banting was knighted in 1922 for his co-discovery ol
insulin with associates of Toronto, and for their wonderful
contribution to medicine in 1922,

WINDSWEPT ISLAND,
WEIS FAMILY ® DOKIS CHANNEL
(As told by Frank Weis.)

The Weis family’s summer retreat is on a seven acre island
located on the west side of the mouth of the east branch
of the Pickerel River outlet, Dokis Channel. This island was
first purchased by the Dickie family who built the original
buildings.

The Weis family had known the north shore of Georgian
Bay for a number of years prior to discovering Key I Jarbour
area, They had been vacationing at Collins Inlet, and from
the late 30’s at King’s Bad River Camp.

In early September of 1941 ‘Dutch’ Weis, a very
adventurous person, decided to visit a friend, ‘Big Jim”
(James Gairdner Sr., Jim Gairdner’s father) who was renting
a cottage at Pointe au Baril, Dutch and son Bill, on a service
leave, and son Frank, who was not due back in school,
headed for Pointe au Baril, When they reached the station,
they rented a 14’ canoe. From Pointe au Baril they headed
north up the shoreline of Georgian Bay. A few days later,
after stopping at every rock in sight to empty the water oul
of the canoe, they eventually landed on Moose Bay Island.
At this time the water was very low, and one could walk
from Dokis Island to the Old Lodge site island.

When they landed, all that was left of Moose Lodge was
the boathouse, ice house, and the bridge across the cut
between the two islands, To the Weises it looked like a
‘chocolate drop’, which they named it. They camped there
overnight in a bad storm. The bridge and their canoe were
washed away into the back bay to the north, In the morning,
while searching for their canoe, they walked the short
distance across Dokis, and saw the three cottages on the far
side of the Dokis Channel,

When they reached Key Harbour the following day, they
met Pete Murray and Reg MelIntosh for the first time, They
told them the cottages were owned by Dr, Banting, Fidward
Dickie, Co}, Chisholm, and Michie, The Weises paddled
from the Harbour up the Key River to Ludpate where they
met the Hurd brothers, also for the first time, They noted
on this trip an enormous amount of floating weeds
compared to today with the motor traffic now on the river
The Welses stayed overnight at Hurd’s Ludgate Camp, 7 a
DERE OTe they were going to drive to Pakesley station
on the ¢ PR and return by rail to Pointe au Baril,

During the war years, they rented Dickie’s cottage for the
a a hey travelled the usual method to reach

1@ JIATDOMT qf linev. The : :
Bdwin at meee an Te Aalto and
ia colthe ’ ; KUM In hel tug te

For the balance of WWII, Dutch Wels and his wife were

unable to cope af the Diekle ce
‘ WINE ‘
SA age without some YOUN

aati aoe iw) an Lo
help. They ended up staying on a Jim and Loretta
' ‘rene ive suth,
Mcintosh’s Camp at French pose Mae island Camp. The
{n 1946, the Weises purchased Dickie’s IS aa i
hired Jim McIntosh to build boats and Ge by om
im bi aeake outboard boats, 19° : ¢
Jim built wo lap strake é tesdb ot ne

oats lasted for many ds se Ue esden vMelntall
Siacita sve eed it for years: ball
boat Charlie Moore used | eae wHimethe
Jim's brother, had built one cabin for them by the time the
arrived, which improved the camp greatly. ‘eked the
in the years of the late 40's and to ’S1, Jim ie ap bal
Rests : ery’ “ar camp on Ws ac

at Britt and brought them to their ce :
ae ble. After the

with his own camp guests, whenever Poss}
highway reached the Key, the Lahtis transported page i
Windswept Island until they used their own boats.

In 1947, after they purchased their cottage and came by
Jitney to the Harbour, there was an added improvement @l
Key Harbour: “Key Harbour Lodge’.

When they would arrive early in the morning, they hai
one of Jessie Lyte’s terrific breakfasts served by Jessic¢ and
her daughters before setting out for their cottage.

THE WEIS FAMILY

H.W. (Dutch’’) Weis, 1891-1953. Wife Adela Grace,
1892-1971, (H.W. Weis was president of Canada Glazel
Papers, Lid., Toronto.) ‘‘Dutch”’ and Adela had thre
children: J. William, born 1918; Grace Adela (Babs), bor
1922, married Larry Parry in 1946; Frank born 1924. Frank
now resides in Collingwood. He married Shirley (nee Smith}
in 1948 and they have three children: Sons Bill, wife Lyn;
Grenville, wife Anne, and daughter Karen,

The Parrys live in Barrie. Their children are; June (Mf
Bob Thorne), Lil (Mrs. Jim Anderson), Jennifer (Mrs. Rot
Richard) and John.

GEIST ¢ DOKIS CHANNEL, 1967
: Walter and Mabel Geist are from the Toronto area ant
first visited Key Harbour district in 1962.

In 1967 they purchased island KG 8974, comprising ld
acres, located just south of the Gairdner’s cottage on the
west side of Dokis Channel,

rhe island and A-frame cottage previously belonged |!

ae ae The Geists call their island retreat ‘“Woodsmol
sland,”’

CRAWFORD ¢ GENESSE BAY
John and Jerry Crawford, from Scarborough, first cal
a Key | farbour to fish and hunt duck in the fall of joi
: iey tented on Dokis Island. They built their own could
1977 and it is located east of Genessee Bay.

Doctor naan
OF Bowe ns collace built in 1927. Photo taken in [®

pr. Bowe
surgeon fro
Harbour ar

By what !
nis father t
in, various |

The Doc
prother-in-l
came to the
George Bo.
1917. It wa
days, as re
telling how

Oct. 26th I
Saturday C
Railway Fe
Oct. 27th
Arrived in
Arrived Leé
night - Wi
settling in
Sunday Oc
two miles ¢
Monday O
H249 9:30
Flarbour 2
Gale and
Tuesday 3
KG9310 F

