# OCR Result for IMG_4390 2023-10-17 12_45_32.HEIC

Ludgate Lum
at the Turn °

As Told by Wm. Crozier,

. ase

Schroeder Mills and Lumber Company had ae an
in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. They had Sees ack ane
Channel from 1916 until the middle 20’s. Schr nine lumber
Mill cut an average of 150,000 feet of white }
each day from September to December. :

The company’s lumber yard had seven ml
east of the CPR track at Pakesley. This gives 50
the scope and size of their operation in those days.
was powered by steam, wood-fed boilers. Horses
moving of timber and other materials.

The yard foreman was Sam Devlin, who rem ay
the lumberyard was phased out and they cleaned out thei!
yards for good in 1935. } ‘os DuIlE

In this period of commerce, lumbering companies bul
a service railroad from Lost Channel to Pakesley and CPR
line called ‘‘Key Valley Railroad’’. The company had
Model T Ford truck with flanged wheels for transportation
of people and light materials on the Valley Railroad. All
the lumber products from the Schroeder Mills were shipped
by rail, mostly to the U.S. markets such as Buffalo,
Tonawanda, Saginaw, Bay City, Detroit, Chicago and New
York. They used this railroad to haul their products to the
CPR, thence to markets. Parts of this roadbed were used
as a base and route in the 1970’s to complete Highway 522

from Highway 69 to Loring and beyond.

When the white pine was nearly all cut off within their
feasible reach they sold the mill and timber limits to Messrs.
Bruce, formerly of French River Mouth, and Playfair
Company of Midland, in the late 20’s.

The Bruce Playfair Company, after buying the Schroeder
operation, cut hemlock, spruce, red and jack pine,
“previously ignored’’. This continued up until the 30’s when
the operation closed down like so many others of this great
era of Ontario’s history.

Pakesley and

les of rail tracks
me idea of
The mill
did the

ained until

neo

y Valley Railroad, Pakesley to Lost
of Wilfred Currie, Parry Sound

Last engine to run on Ke

Channel. Photo courtesy
138

per and Logging Companies
f the Century

a Resident of T

he Area for More than 50 Years

LOGGING OPERAT}
pAKESLEY-LUDGATE AREA ans IN
IN THE EARLY 1900°¢> NOky,
Aj] logging companies cut their logs in the f

Sagi and hauled the logs to their ‘aul 5 een
the winter months or to the rivers where ies beetle
made up for the spring break-up. icy

When lumbering was at its peak, Mr. Crone a
the winter tote or logging roads were made fo, the o
of horses which drew the enormous and heavy cr i
up to Lost Channel and Ludgate. i

THE PATENTED WILKINSON SNoWpr 0),

This ingenious piece of equipment was useq to
roads by the lumbermen. It was built in two sect
front had a small VEE plow attached to a Sleig
tongue and draft equipment for pulling it. The bac
also had runners which carried the shares, moyjg board
and wings. The plow shares, which were Tight and 7
handed, had screw devices so that the operator COULd raise
and lower them as required. They cut a rut about 4 Fos
in width and three to four inches deep on each Side, ab
six feet apart.

A water tank was constructed on a set of sleighs especially
made for the purpose with runners turned up at each end
with a tongue and draft gear to hitch the horses to. [t did not
have to be turned around at the end of the road. The tani
was filled from holes dug alongside the road by a woode
barrel that had a pail made of inch iron rod, attached {
it near the bungs. A small wooden door covered the hole
cut in the bottom. The barrel moved up and downa Specially
constructed ladder by a block and line that was drawn by
horses. When lowered into the water hole (“tank holes” they
were called) the door floated open allowing the barrel to sink
and fill with water. When the barrel started to rise by the
horses drawing on the line, the small door closed retaining
the water until it got to the top of the ladder. It dumped
its contents into the tank and returned to the hole. This
procedure was repeated until the tank was filled.

On each side of the water tank there were two holes tha!
were equipped with long plugs that the man operating tht
tank could take out, allowing the water to spill into them!
made by the plow to form ice, The water was put
during the night and the ruts had to be cleaned out afte
each snowstorm. As the ice would build up unevenly in the
Tut the snowplow had to be used to keep it as flat 4s e
sible so the log sleigh runners, which had half round s'*

Make |

ONS. The
h with 4
K section

Ou

shoeing would not get runner-bound. I believe the re"

fo
Slei
eliminate friction

att
as much as possible as only 4 small
of the runner

Hen would grip the ice making it easiet

© Horses. The horses did not walk in the rut,
me o the sleigh tongue, There were men called “8
Or “‘chickadees’’ to keep the horse manure clea’

to pu

put 1s!
¢ es

: ae sen shoeing being half round was to eliminate!
gh’s sliding sideways when rounding a curve 4! :

II by

rh)

ol!

pen
tie wood of th

made with a con
both benches Or
allowed the run
spreading the lo.
prevented them
bottom of each °
fastened, keepit
making it easiel
The ‘‘Top Lc
load of logs wa
accomplished tk
ing it to make :
The logs wer
a‘jammer’?’. It
block attached
alength of cab
load on the sle
men and horse
ability. Horses
Mr. Crozier
ould have cm
Tailroad Crossiy

W

