# OCR Result for IMG_4383 2023-10-17 12_45_25.HEIC

Contin
> takes
id Bay
River

-e and
rariely

ry east

and 4

left to right, Hubert Patenaude, Al Connor, 1982. Left,
red fox, otter, beaver, large otter on right.

HUBERT (THE MAD TRAPPER) PATENAUDE
AND HIS WIFE GLORIA
h a group for 30 years on the

Hubert was a partner wit
had a cottage called

Pickerel North Narrows where they
“Penetang 12 Hunt Club’”’.

He had visited Key Harbour
‘ame down the Bad River and beca
ewton family.
Hubert and his wife owned a furniture business 11
Penetanguishene, He sold the business in 1968 and came
orth to God’s country. After two yeal® of retirement at
is camp on Pickerel River, Hubert stopped al the
Champlain Hotel on Highway 69 in the fall of 1972 and ae
“dentally met Arthur Newton. Before Hubert left to g0 back

area occasionally when he
me friendly with the

Larr ; 5
: a Secord left, Hubert Patenaude, Edwin Aalto having
n meal on trapline, French River area.

Ca

\ Sa
%

Edwin Aalto with a wolf caught on the trapline.

to his camp, Arthur asked him if he wanted something to
do during his spare time. The next day Hubert went down
to the Key to look at Arthur’s trapline, which he then
proceeded to buy. Hubert had never trapped before, but
with advice from local trappers, he soon caught on and has
been successful ever since.

He added onto the original building in Fox Bay where he
and Gloria spend most of the winter. They gave up their
modern living in Penetanguishene and spend their summers
around Key Harbour on their 44 ft. all steel Georgian house
boat, ‘‘Blue Vaya

Hubert and Gloria have two daughters: Becky and Carol,
(Mrs. Ron Gregoire) of Penetanguishene. The Gregoires
aughter Chantelle. Becky married Keith Burmaster

have ad
ave a son, Joshua Roy.

hey h
and they a

McQuee;

