# OCR Result for IMG_4352 2023-10-17 12_44_14.HEIC

xe married Noreen Kenny in M
iw , of two boys, Frank and L.
‘A i suddenly in April 1976.
on jsh out of the Harbour in the

arch 19

35
AWrence * They

. Lawrence
30’

ar as * Ne an
x there, Were C.H, Gauthier F q

ie
pple Aaltos, Lahtis,

isherj Se
a sods , ties, Pi]
i pougheees ’

. By
f fist : Light and
p The boxes : ish shipped then
jell ak fish cleaned and iced, anq Some at 29
ays jd fish boxes from the tugs ang fo unlo; Do

nl’ rels used by pour ations ad frej h
barrel ¥ Pound netters, pac bance

ast end of t

ge tat
a : , items there was a hoist at the e
Jott

xh REG McINTOSH ¢ KEy HARBOUR
FRENCH RIVER MOUTH
__-vclntosh took over the operation Of the Jitne
w awrence Hazzard in the Spring of 1937.
fl e moved back to the old hom

Y Service
€ ran it til]
stead and Sawmill

ic ne ins

IND j french ie yee ihc
| oer the years Reg and his wife Mary anq family lived
| ye Harbour as Lawrence Hazzard had done, Mary was
WOrkeg J eacher before being married.
Atthu; j \any residents, cottagers and tourists remember Reg as
ivi dy perennial engineer-conductor of the Key Harbour’s
‘oonarville Trolley’’, with many innovations and changes,
al Forq lye such innovation was when he placed his X-Ray
Te also es of his broken bones from his Plane crash, on the
Use for | sadow panes of the passenger car for all to see.
Reg used a 1928 Whippet car to pull his train (seen in
e Ford Jone of the pictures). He installed a Powerful spotlight on
Which x back of the car for night travel.
Carto | Alter Reg left in 1944, C.H. Gauthier hired Bob Currie

ecially sm Ludgate area with J ohnny Green assisting him to run

t had j&Jiney for a couple of years. Little is known about the
Jhold — {xmities of either man except that they operated the service
jtires | this period.
| ‘any riders of the Key Harbour Jitney Service over the
run, “sremember funny happenings on the trips to and from
then | “Harbour, such as moose and bears on the tracks. Some
| “ple even carried guns on their laps for protection. Others
a ; nber how the tree limbs had been allowed to grow so
c

|. Othe tracks that they could knock a person off the

. < et passing. Mr. Fowler remembers one trip
by 0 When one of the Costello boys oe
ee ae on the train by marching up and ede
a2 “ivesnake in a bottle and insisting he was going
om
he

: Art Gropp 5 Mill at
Key Harbour. te
first closed iw c

for passengers con-
a

yenlence.

Turning truck
around on jack to
start trip to Key
Junction.

Jitney train leaving
for Key Junction.

Photo courtesy
Alvin Gropp.

