# OCR Result for IMG_4394 2023-10-17 12_45_45.HEIC

for his horses:

to bring in feed Britt

ee th of the Key, around

The hay came from farms sou
and Still River. nae
Bert Currie, towed tne
River to the Harbour in 1932.

ras to have been one M :
Heke a Ose but it reached Muskrat Bay
In the winter of °33 Bert Currie and . ao
pine logs on the ice from the cliffs on t Y
river above the island half way down the Key,
aa ined two log boom
as “‘Larry’s Landing.’’ They chaine qatar
shore at the narrows. Open most of the winter,
opened up first in the spring thaw. ver

Pe weather this year played tricks on Euan It ue LS ae

warm with rain, melting the snow. The watel ae sna
large cakes of ice broke, jammed up with the Nee aa
became a dam with enormous pressure building up 0¢ ,
it. Bert and his men tried to blow the jam, but to no ae
That night it broke snapping two-foot-thick logs He
toothpicks and a wall of water and logs rushed down
river towards the Harbour. When the logs reached Muskrat
Bay, the wind switched to the west, with the water high the
logs ended up in the back bays’ bullrushes. Then, the Welle’
went down fast and left the 3,000 logs high and dry in the
mud. (Where some still are today.)

This certainly was a mess for Bert and his men to tackle.
He set up a temporary camp headquarters on the north
shore. He hired extra men and boats, brought horses
downriver on barges, all to try and get the logs floating
again.

Wilfred Currie, Bert’s son, remembers well how they had
to wade in mud to their waists to hook onto the logs with
chains and ropes for boats to try to tow them free. The
horses had to contend with the mud to pull those logs closest
to the shore loose. And they had a deadline to meet: a
rendezvous with a barge at Dead Island to load the logs for
the trip across the bay. This was quite a rush for the men
to meet the barge, but they succeeded and the last log tow
was made on the lower half of the Key without any more
trouble in 733.

Bert was born at Loring, in 189]. He married Rosella Ball
in 1912. They raised a family of four boys: eldest Clinton,
Robert (Bob), Percy, and Wilfred. The children went to
school at Ludgate and Pakesley.

Percy was drowned in a boating accident on the 11th of
May in 1927 at the age of ten. Th
Key River at the CNR and CPR c
in the prow of the boat to help |
waters were high and swift. The b
and Percy pitched out on his h
residents made a great effort at the time to locate the bod

but were unsuccessful. The body was found at the rail y;
crossing 28 days later. In 198] the Ministry of . ilway
Resources had a beautiful] bronze plaque ce atural
at the grave site of Percy Currie On the old a erected
stead at Portage Lake. Currie farm.
Bert and Rosella Currie m
died June 17, 1974, Rosella B

142

down the Key

Jeules Mazure a
log boom towed dow

in another way-
dumped 3,500
th side of the
known now
1s to each
this spot

st log boom to gb

€ mishap occurred On the
rossing. He was standing
and it. The spring flood
Oat struck a cut-off piling,
ead. The loca] Police and

Oved to Ardbeg in 15 18

B
all Currie, born Septembe ‘cl

r 10,

A¢

Ve Bert Currie on horseback at their farm

children. Photo courtesy of Wilfred Currie.

1880 in Mendonte township, died August 29) 1956 in
Sound.

Clinton Currie guided some for Lytes’ Key Harbon,
Lodge and other resorts in the area in the 1940’ He als
was a section man for CNR Cranberry division, Ip 1947 he
moved to Waterloo to work. Later he moved to Stratford
then to Elliot Lake. ’

Wilfred left the area at Portage Lake and moved to Parry
Sound in 1952 where the family now resides. Wilfreq and
his wife Catherine have one daughter, Elaine, and Wins,
Wayne and Wanda, born in 1955.

Robert (Bob) worked a year or two running the Jitney
service at Key Harbour. He also helped build cottages in
the area. Bob sold the Portage Lake homestead in 1957,

Parry

George Ball q
Mitchell.

nd his three dogs. Photo courtesy of Alan
ce see ° LUDGATE ¢ KEY RIVER
ai Le all was a lifetime resident of Ludgate, Key i
ay, Cane ee Ol this century, he had a house n side
Of Key Rj S leased a large tract of land on the not! ee
built a ee at first Narrows west of Highway #69. oe
the year “ = on the Property where he lived alone: logs
S Ne worked at odd jobs and cut wood and 10°

and two Of thei

While
the smal
the Com
corresp¢
uncle in
a teachit
At thee
at their
his salar
be cut ¢
year an
of the sc
with th

In 19
At this
they de.

After
and vis
feturne
Purcha;
Previoy
for the;
he Sold

at Pak

Wiln
Ma la:
Office,
“ttage
“ttage

“ttage,
val
© Visit
‘Outh
