# OCR Result for IMG_4418 2023-10-21 03_30_11.HEIC

NG
THOUSE ° BY
UX ISLAND LIGH

GPREAS “INLET, 1870-1982

y Ministry of Transport, Parry Sound : (
: mei issioned 1}

The lighthouse was built and its Light COU oi the
1870. As there were no records kept HOS iod
lighthouse keepers are unknown for thal "Byng Inlet took

On August 4, 1918, Charles Lamondin of Byng 1925.

‘tained it till March 31,
charge of the light and maintaine ony

Louis Lamondin also of Byng Inlet, took Fee nice
charge of the Gereaux Light on April 1, 1925, an Tare
appointed permanently. He was married, with two cil OAe
He held this position till he retired at age 69, April 3 i

Joseph George Barron, grade Ill light keeper from BHI,
took over. maintaining the light on April 14, 1946. He was
married and had been pensioned from the military set we
He served at Gereaux till 1966 when he retired. Barron died
in 1967.

For a number of years the Gereaux Island Light was a
three-man station. ;

On November 21, 1966, John R. Joiner of Huntsville,
who had previously been at ‘Red Rock”’ and ““Love Island”’
lights was transferred to Gereaux. He was single and a grade
III keeper. At the same date Dalton C. Crawford of Waverly
came to Gereaux. He was a Grade III, married, with military
service.

April 1, 1967, George Roszel, a grade III, of “Lion’s
Head’’ and formerly at ‘‘Cabot Head’? and ‘‘Caribou
Island’’, was appointed to Gereaux. Roszel was married,
with one child and was a pensioner from the Royal Canadian
Air Force.

Allen W. Gastich, grade III keeper, joined the staff on
May 1, 1967 He was married, lived in summer at Britt,
winter at Midland.

On February 1, 1968, Herbert E. Christenson, a grade
VI keeper, married, from Parry Sound, was appointed to
Gereaux as lightkeeper.

Information supplied b

Gereaux Island light keepers home and assistant’s apart-
ment. Arthur Niederhumer is chief light keeper in 198) Hi
assistant is William Pattison. Art and his w a
the season at Gereaux Island.

166

fe Rose spend

Gereaux original lighthouse built in late 1800's. The building
is used now only as an overnight accommodation if
someone is stranded on the island.

Bottom right: Britt kindergarden school children visiting
Gereaux Light in 1980.

