# OCR Result for IMG_4336 2023-10-17 12_43_37.HEIC

srought her fp

n all the Key
was begun.

S some, the |

ey Harbour

ing the out |

and rescued

nany people
ight on the

ESENT

Se

on and Eileen spent the next three summer y
Lytes- In these years they picked out an island on
ait the first channel to Henvey
sf oe to build their own cottage,
i the Fowlers visited the Department of Lands and

asts in Parry Sound, tG apply for purchase of their island
pepartment seemed in no hurry to process the purchase
af finally 2ot Broung (0 examination and execution of their
a in 1950. Their island is listed on map 24 D 1924 as
~queenie #1 356,” survey 1911.

in 1947 Gord started work on their one-room cottage, All
spe framing and sheathing lumber used for the cottage was
produced from coal dock pilings that John Lahti had sawed
e his mill. Gord did all the construction himself in three
weeks. Ovet the years Gord covered the north wall of the
spttage with a six inch veneer of local stone. This entailed
5 lot of very hard work.

The Fowlers have lived most of their lives in the Toronto
ycinity and have spent many enjoyable summer vacations
on their island since 1947.

ELLIOTT ¢ KEY HARBOUR

Mr. and Mrs. Jack Elliott first came to the area in the
carly 1950’s when they rented Bill Moody’s cottage and came
in via Britt.

They bought Man Island in 1954 and built their own cot-
tage on it that summer.

Jack’s wife Lois (nee Kyle) was from Parry Sound. Jack
was an electrical contractor in Toronto and retired in 1978.
They have one son, Glen who lives in Toronto.

Gord

acations

the west
and Britt. Here they

Por

he
phe

““ALCATRAZ”’
ELLIS * KRISTY ° KEY HARBOUR
Fred Oliver Ellis and his wife Eva purchased island
AEF1020 south west of Key Harbour. This island over the
ars, has become a landmark. The Ellises called it
‘Alcatraz’ and painted the name on the rocks.

The Ellis family were originally from Saskatoon and
igeet Saskatchewan, where they raised their family. From
ere they moved to Sudbury in 1937.

5 the Ellises were introduced to Key Harbour by
s from Sudbury. In the fall of 1955 Fred and Eva
to build their cottage. They decided to spend the
ni the cottage without a roof and soon found out this
1 too wise a decision with the cold Key Harbour fall
its. They were nearly frozen out by morning.

it son Donald was only 12 years old at the time but
4 great deal with the building of the cottage. He spent
ay enjoyable times at the cottage in his teens.
: ir. Ellis died suddenly at the cottage in Septem
t : his death Mrs. Ellis signed the jsland and cottage over
| “tT daughter Joan, Mrs. Eugene Kristy of Toronto.

< KRISTY

isty was born in Sandy Lak
ry in 1949. Eugene marl
en are: Brian, William

Se ies _ iSite:
ve in Mississauga and vis ee
; d the camp £0 Jack

emt
="
ay
\O
OA!

ke Manitoba and
ed Joan Ellis
and Valarie.

d their cottage

ES cach summer until they sol

Alliston in 1980.

ber 1972-

ey ee ¢ KEY HARBOUR

ane : ecker was from Cleveland. He came to Key
our for sport fishing in the 1940’s. Over the years Ed

came to know and visited the Lahti family, and became a

close friend of the Lahtis.

In 1962 Ed and his wife, Ann, bought island TA40 south
of the Harbour. With assistance from friends, Ed built their
cottage in 1963.

Ed was known by local residents as ‘“Ed Becker and
Princer Ltd.’’ Princer was his small dog, a constant and
faithful companion, and the only dog most people ever saw

that puffed and smoked a cigarette. Ed died in 1977, Ann
in 1979,

SAM LAHTI JR « KEY HARBOUR
Sam Jr. and his wife, Linda, now own the Becker cot-
tage and island.
Sam and Linda also own and operate ‘‘Sam’s Place’’ on
Highway 69 south of Sudbury. They have three children,
2 boys and a girl.

KALTIAINEN ¢ KEY HARBOUR
The Kaltiainen family have a cottage next to Becker’s
island. They are from Sudbury and visit the island each
summer. They are known as the ‘‘Flying Finns’’.

MASTER ¢ KEY HARBOUR
Finn Channel, 1947-1970

Alfred E. Master was employed by the CNR as a
machinist in its Stratford car shops. He and his wife May,
first visited Key Harbour in 1947 on a fishing vacation. They
stayed at MacLeod’s Camp.

In 1949 they were able to purchase a 2-3/4 acre island no.
234, on the west side of the Finn Channel. This island had
been owned by the CNR. The taxes were not paid and it
reverted to the Province. Konsta Pukkila had been living
in a log cottage that someone else had built on the island
earlier. He did not own the island and the Masters were able
to purchase it for $150.

After Masters bought the island they gave Konsta
written permission to remain there if he wished to. He moved
to the Harbour later.

Alfred ordered cottage building material from Sudbury.
The material was delivered to Key Junction and Johnny
Mallette hauled it by the Jitney train to the Harbour. Konsta
helped Alfred build their cottage in 1956.

The Masters have four children: Irene (Mrs. Earl
Connelly), Edith (Mrs. Don Hains), Gordon, his wife
(Dorothy) and Glenn, his wife (Alice). There are a number
of grandchildren and great-grandchildren.

Alfred retired in 1956. The Masters spent most of their
summer at their cottage with visits from their children and
their families. Alfred died November 30th, 1978. May lives
in Stratford. Masters sold their cottage to Mr. and Mrs.
James H. Brown of London in October 1970.

BROWN * KEY HARBOUR

Gwen Long married Jack Brown and they live in Arva
London). Jack and Gwen have three children. Brian, Dan

( 85

2 Ainge rgie SESS: regres
