# OCR Result for IMG_4322 2023-10-17 12_43_08.HEIC

: There —<
St the |

:

© Stall in ge

W the wate,

> well

un the can)

time at Ke

Irs. Michase
she sold ts

, 1957. Ma!

a she retiree

os

YULES AT MICHAUD’s INN
1940-1958
(As told by Margaret Yule)

Owen and Margaret Yule first hea
the French River area from an uncle
Mr. and Mrs. Edward Wilcox of To
of the beautiful scenery they had found c i
the area. Their favourite trip was on be Wace
River from the railway and around from -
to the Eastern Outlet, now the Pickerel
railway on the French.

rd of Key Harbour and
and aunt of Margaret’s
Tonto. They often talked

he Wanapitei
e French River
then back to the

At that time

tecthay cs : » probably the :

1900°s, they could check their canoe on the train ne
Cir

baggage from Toronto free of charge.

evn is ess Key Harbour in 1940 on a fishing trip
with friends, Dr. Ervin Ante, Peter Pringle and Wallac
Waller. They stayed at Leo Michaud’s Inn as Leo ea
previously guided Dr. Ante when he had stayed at the
Ojibway Hotel at Pointe au Baril. :

They had had such good catches of large pickerel
(walleyes) on previous June and September trips that, about
1935, they persuaded Leo to build them a cabin. They
supplied materials and furnished it. Leo could rent the cabin
when they did not require it.

As Leo built his own boats for camp use, which were
excellent, they asked him to build boats for them. Two were
14 feet and one was 16 feet. They supplied the cypress used
in construction. These were lap-strake, soft chine boats (with
gently curved sides) and very sturdy keel strips, so they could
be pulled up on rocks without damage. They had 5 hp outboard
motors, as did most of the boats in the area in those days. A
10 hp was a large motor.

Owen eventually bought Wallace Waller’s boat. Later,
about 1945, Dr. Ante bought two molded plywood hulls
from the U.S. Navy. Leo finished them with mahogany
decks. The Yules, thirty years later, have one of these boats
in use. Marine plywood was new then, and many people
predicted that in a boat it would last only a year or two.

“How wrong they were!”’ ak
Marearet remembers her first visit to the Key about Z 3%
r in from Toronto at > 730

They arrived at Key Junction by tra 2
on a cold June morning and waited for transpor
0 i Jley’” type train arrived
Key Harbour. ““The Toonarville Trolley ae
driven by Reg McIntosh. She was privileged to f
R S ly woman on that trip.
the car with Reg, as she was the only a
The men sat on fish boxes On open cars | ae Se .
When Leo found that a woman was 1D ‘ ae ‘
promptly arrived at the cabin with a 1 ee
the bedrooms. A year or two later ee Ocak
outhouse in camp. Ev entually he built $s
LS s had been
A i rements
On one visit after these modern Me Bee ties -
installed, as Margaret was AOE aoe sae ceular
dinner in the evening, she Oe ee ae oa
guests talking on the verandah a - Sean ihe
oe one of thes Ie hecy came the
fishing!’? Not many years after es eat
drastic drop off of commercial white fish

the area. We are sure, Margaret! Women and plumbing were
not really responsible for this condition!

Guests at Michaud’s Camp enjoyed many other
improvements. Mrs. Michaud made small gardens in the
rock pockets and raised fresh vegetables, green and red
peppers, herbs, lettuce, etc. One of the events of the year
Was getting the cow they had on the island loaded on a boat
for her annual visit up river.

Michauds had many notable guests from the U-S.,
Europe and Canada visit or stay at the Inn. Many cruise
boats stopped for marine service or a meal. Some of these
people were Dr. Ervin Ante and party, Dr. Breul, David Worts
Smart, F.C. Clarkson, Herb Smith, Dr. Booth and Col.
Chisholm.

Guest David Worts Smart, one of the Gooderham and
Worts distillers, now Walker, Gooderham and Worts, spent
at least three weeks each summer at Michaud’s, plus a spring
and fall trip of shorter duration. They owned what was
called a ‘‘pointer boat’’, with both bow and stern coming
to a point. The boat had a one-cylinder inboard motor with
disappearing propeller. The Worts would be seen going
slowly along fishing in their boat. They fished with fly rods
only.

When camp was not too full, Mrs. Michaud cooked some
of her Hungarian dinners, especially pike baked in the oven
with milk, lots of paprika and seasoning. In those days
when pickerel and bass were so plentiful, a pike was usually
thrown away. Her blueberry pies were also memorable.

“AALTO’S ISLE” ¢ KEY HARBOUR

In 1937-38-39 Harold Aalto worked between fishing
seasons as a clean-up and signal man at the CNR coal dock,
Key Harbour.

Harold was also a guide in the 30’s - 40’s for “Camp
Henry” and ‘‘Michaud’s Inn’’. In 1941 Harold married
Mary Snowball. Mary’s aunt and uncle, the Henrys, owned
‘“<Camp Henry’’. Harold and Mary worked for and managed
Camp Henry for 6 yeats, 1950-55.

In 1952 Harold and Mary built themselves a house on an
island back of Master’s on the Finn Channel. They lived there
from 1953-55.

As the Key Harbour area in the 50s was increasing in
sports fishing and tourist activities, Harold and Mary bought
Michaud’s tourist resort in 1956, and renamed it “‘Aalto’s
Isle’’. The resort was both ‘‘American plan’” and house-
keeping cottages, with boats and motors for rent.
Harold, when operating the lodge, used his launch to guide
his customers.

Harold sold the camp to Vic Lorentz and party from
Toronto in 1974. He kept his guide launch and semi-retired
to live with Edwin and his mother. Harold does some
suiding in the summer, helps Edwin with many jobs, splits
the wood, and does the skinning of the catch from their

winter trapline.
‘A ALTO’S ISLE’, LORENTZ AND PARTY

Victor Lorentz, Ron Forbes and Gary Strilive all of
the Toronto area, bought Aalto’s Isle in 1974. The camp

is NOW used only as a private camp.

7

