# OCR Result for IMG_4396 2023-10-17 12_45_48.HEIC

River and Highway
11).

Hurd’s Tourist Resort and docks. Key
69, 1955. Photos supplied by Hurd fan

69. In 1946 this leased land became open for sale and the
Hurd brothers were able to purchase it. Once they owned
the land this allowed them to plan and progress with
permanent buildings.

In 1954 Hurd’s Ludgate Tourist Camp was closed because
the Department of Tourism at that time demanded they
make many major, modern, expensive improvements OT
close. This expense would not be justified when it was only
leased land. With the coming of Highway 69 to the Key and
their newly acquired lands at the crossing, they gave UP at
Ludgate and concentrated at their new location. They felt
they were treated unfairly by the Department at that time.

The next historical event was the completion of Highway
69 to Sudbury from Toronto in 1954. By this time the Hurds
had or were in the process of building five housekeeping
cottages and two sleeping cabins, a house, a store and living
quarters, gas pumps al the highway, icehouse, indoor car
parking, docks, boathouse, boat slips, and a large parking
lot at the dock area.

This brings us up to an era which many readers will
remember; their first trip to Key River, Key Harbour and
beyond. The new highway made this unexploited area
possible for many sportsmen to visit and one of the jumping-
off spots was Hurd’s Landing.

They had, at the most, 25 cedar strip boats for rent, ten
of which they took by truck to the newly-opened Grundy
Lake Park, in 1958 or 59, for the campers’ use on the lake.

Hurds cut their own ice from the river first by hand saw
and drew it up to the icehouse with horses. Years later they
hired Edwin and Harold Aalto to cut it for them with their
icecutting equipment. It was skidded onto a trailer and Jeep
with a car, then the Jeep drew the trailer and its own load
of ice blocks up to the icehouse. Ernie Missabie, Paul
Milton and Lloyd Contin would help out with this chore
They stored and sold about 100 tons of ice each year ae
was in great demand by the campers leaving the cat ce
passers-by, and many of the local cottagers also reais

Many of their old customers were reluctant to sta =
new cottages at the Highway when they first a at the
These old customers preferred to stay at the old L nae
camp with its solitude and privacy. udgate
144

jine was gi
moccasins;
porcupine
pirch bark ¢
items-

public ane | ss to Key Marina, Ltd., in May of 1969. p

retired an
working for 4

The Gariups are
pavid, Violet and

ments and a

: wide variety of good
their store was a s. On
n fts and goods made by the lg¢a) ier
ose kid slippers, gloves, mitts, Mee lang,
quills and birch bark, small jewel coe Btayy

anoes, AX handles, snowshoes and many Smal)
Othe,

Sold 1

: :
years, Hurd’s camp and landing was a ye,

still is today- After many years of sery

area reside

nts, Doug and Wilmot ae
Gr
OU

d moved to Parry Sound. Wilmot COntinug

time for Key Marina in the store.

y Marina) sold to Gil Gariup of Montrea}
Gil; wife Valerie; children Patrick, Ge
Doris. They have made many improve
Key Marina. :

Ron Gris (Ke

dditions to

HURD FAMILIES
Douglas Hurd married Dorothy McCaul of
Toronto. They have three children. David married Ling,
Fisher of Parry Sound, they have a son James. Dave built
a new home back of Camp Dore. He also managed Key
Marina Ltd. for Tony Fionini from 1972 to 1976. He worked
for the Ministry of Natural Resources for a number of years,
and is now self-employed, welding and building custom

made furniture.

Jean Hurd married Terry Rock who is a biologist with
the Ministry of Natural Resources and Wildlife,
Saskatchewan. The Rocks live in Saskatoon, Saskatchewan
and have a son, Tyler and a daughter Judith.

In 1942

Top: CNR and

Bottom; CPR, Ludgate.

Key Bay looking towards Portage Lake

Dur
Doug
Ludga
good ¢
Long
passel
(with
train.
folloy
meet
