# OCR Result for IMG_4385 2023-10-17 12_45_28.HEIC

yrlock

ATS
ASRS
Josephine Krystig
Krystia Family
Key Junction 1930 - Key River 1982
: (As told by John Krystia)
‘rystia came to Canada from the Ukraj
an work for the CNR, 50 miles west
ee time were 30¢ per hour. He wa
re division in 1930.
Dente Josephine Rusin. She had replaced
a Fumntantevn Post Office in 1930, They
ae conjunction with the post office.
ee cone at that time was $10 a month, with an
Oe an to carry the mail bag to the station and
a ae placed in the mail car. In winter months
: oan be from five to seven hours late. Mrs. Krystia
ae to wait at the station. If she as even one
month the $5 could be cut off as a penalty. fe
; tore and post office were closed because
Le been closed. Mail for Key ee oe
ents was then transferred to the Pickerel River
ice a short distance north on the CNR ee By
; and Josephine raised a family o eons
ation: Jean, George, James and Wa Bo
minor! to Sudbury where they now re :
‘ge are both married. : ad
1955 they bought George Ball’s eo a
gs and property on the Key near Hig ee cae
ny Junction had been closed and, in none ene
‘ted dismantling the old Krystia ae Speen
(the Junction. Pat McIntosh broug Hee Ne took
liney cars to Key Harbour. ee their property,
‘ing by boat and barge up river job was possibly
Tit was reconstructed. This ee eee bat
lreight carried on Key Harbour 5p Gog fis rails
eee he CNR rem
“tthe material just before t
“fall of 1960, ti
the Krystia families spend considerable :
8 On the Key River. of John, cam
2 titand se. Krystia, older ee William in
“ada from the Ukraine, (George in
gy Nork for the CNR.
~ ge lirst worked on the buildi
for $2 a day.
a Worked on the Key Harbour a te bed grave
win 1908. At that time they obtaine

jonn Krystia

Ne in 1926,
of Capreol.
S transferred

100!

i=

& od

s

os =

me at their

Bas

of Key Harbour
ng

Line for 15¢

ate. There Was a Steam
TS. When they

reached
More to unlo

ad the cars

aM Section foreman
Mansferred {
aM Was transf err

he was

at Cranberry
cey Junction Willi

O Key Junction. From
ed to Washego in 1925.
Station A
The Station was built
from Krystia, th
Whether he or
known, M

sents At Key Junction

either jn 1908 or 1909.
Jat a Mr, MacKartel was
Someone else was there
acKarrel was the agent in 19

We do know,
agent there in 1913.
before then is not

as Many residents of the Key Harbour
area remember. He retired in 1949. There were four
temporary agents, for one summer each: George Roberts,
a Mr. Siman, Karen a : i » then,
took over as Permanent agent and Stayed until the station
and line closed in 1955. The station burned down shortly

after the junction closed.

- a: bs ae at 2
Key Junction Station, 1932.

hte ei Va
eS , Junction, Tower ele :
we ue ee on the Spur es ee
the rote Lake. It was ce ae rebuilt at
and south oe ee Jater years it was ee to Morville
by BAY a “The living quarters were
pickerel River-

. Ir, :
Grieves of Key Harbot

ey Harbour Lodd

) Bud McQuee;
en

y
lark

amily
ette

n

