# OCR Result for IMG_4379 2023-10-17 12_45_13.HEIC

: “118 houses
Cutting Ice, Filling aa AREA
AALTOS 1934-1979 ° KEY He ous ee

For many years cutting ice and ea tie year-roun
very essential aspect of life for the people li er cottagers-
in the Key Harbour area, also for the summ es che
Before the advent of electric power 12 Augus Kee
people relied on iceboxes; later propane refrigerator’
their food.

Icehouses were one most important part 0
fishing. The fishermen packed their es in 1ce
fresh till they reached the marketplace. :

For aoe tourist resorts used ;cehouses filled a
ice for guests to keep their fish in while in camp, and to pac
the coolers when returning to their homes. Cam-A-Key
Resort was one of the last camps to have natural ice available
at Key Harbour. Most resorts have changed to ice machines
and deep freezers for their ice supply. :

Aaltos and Lahtis in the 30’s and 40’s cut tons of ice with
hand ice saws for their respective icehouses and also for
others in the area. Konsta Pukkila, Pete Murray, Leo
Michaud, Hurd brothers and many others cut ice by hand.

In the early 1950’s Edwin Aalto followed the pattern of
others by mounting a circular saw ona portable long wooden
frame, also mounting a gasoline motor on the opposite end
to run the saw. It made the job much easier to make the
many cuts required to make square blocks in the 3’ thick
ice into manageable three to four hundred pound blocks.

Aaltos used another motor mounted on a winch frame
with steel cable to skid blocks of ice on long wooden slides
from the lake up to the icehouses. These slides were put
together so they could be raised on supports as the icehouse
was filled.

The square blocks of ice were stacked by ice tongs close
together tier on tier until the icehouse was full. This made
one huge square mass of tons of ice. The ice was covered
with a foot or more of sawdust.

Most of the icehouses were made with 6” ”
walls filled with sawdust for aaa ie
properly cared for, it would last until November. was

Filling icehouses was cold and very heavy work. Edw:-

and Harold filled the last icehouse f
OL
Cam-A-Key Resort in 1979. r the Campbe!

f commercial
to keep them

et —
ee geen

anes

Left centre: Ice circular saw, Edwin. B
starting winch motor. a

YY, Hi
128 arold

Harold Aalto

iy s Ke
and — s a3 e firs! inf
blocks to sta; Larry Secord hand sawing ih ye i

ee
Rowdy”

: : A
Filling Lahti’s ice house in 1970’s. Harold Aalto preparing
to winch 3 blocks of ice into ice house.

Setting up slides for Agnes Trott’s ice house.

&

haa

rte Harold’s dog “Chester” left. E

Ih 19
“ow 70, Edwi
a this ae oe aaa: Li
ca che One ae
Reg Car in SPectacular
& Wate late Winter
SPQ, * Pressyy er al
hick : xe On th
S of jc

