# OCR Result for IMG_4282 2023-10-17 12_41_30.HEIC

irry Sound.
Upplies for

and Mrs.
in the last
and Larry

> were local
vas Albert
with Kings

, and sons
erry Allen;
nd Alfred
anguishene
nd Marcel
me; Wayne
1, Fred and
and Ernest

dsons Ben
1S; Bobby
ie, Dam
Be Dave ae

Robinso”

Commercial Fishing
by John Macfie Fish & Wildlife Supervisor,

Department of Lands & Forest Parry Sound District

Dominion Fish Company Base, Ridout Island

‘ ;

The steam tug right centre is Pillgrem’s first steam tug “‘Mascott’’. Photo courtesy Ontario Archives.

We are not able to refer to a date, and say ‘at this point
the commercial fishing industry of eastern Georgian Bay had
its beginning’, even if we exclude from our definition of the
term, the catching of fish to provision fur-trading or military
bodies. At some time in the first half, probably the first
quarter, of the 19th century, someone undertook to bring
together the whitefish and lake trout of the Bay, and the
fast growing human population to the south, and thus did
the commercial fishery begin. The introduction of fishing
to the Thirty Thousand Islands region was probably
achieved through the natural extension of operations fur-
ther down the Great Lakes. It was a valuable storehouse that
was opened, for the Georgian Bay fishery grew in time to
be the most heavily fished and the greatest producer of lake
trout and whitefish of all the Canadian Lakes.

The story of commercial fishing in the Parry Sound waters
is largely a story of lake trout and whitefish. While yellow
pickerel, pike, sturgeon, herring, bass and other species have
contributed to the fishery, it was always the trout and the
whitefish that the fisherman sought. The east side of the Bay,
with its deeps and shoals, suited these fish well, and when
other conditions favored them, they were available to the
fisherman in large quantity.

In the beginning, we may assume, the fishermen sailed
into the Bay from ports on the lower Lakes, salted their

catch, and sailed back home at the end of the season. In
the 1850’s, Georgian Bay production appears to have been
over 1000 barrels annually. When a railroad reached the
south end of Georgian Bay around 1860, a more direct route
to market was opened, and Collingwood, Meaford and
Owen Sound became the fishing ports of Georgian Bay.
From then, the outfits sailed in Spring to the various
grounds. Those who worked waters some distance from
home, built fishing stations on the outer fringes of the Thirty
Thousand Islands. Probably the largest station was that at
the Bustard Islands. There were others at the Minks, the
Snakes, and Champlain Island. These were sizeable
summer colonies, made up of a number of fishermen and
their families.

Improved transport made it possible to market fish in
fresh condition. Buyers (mostly U.S. concerns) sent
schooners on regular rounds to collect fish at the statians,
packing them on ice in ‘‘cars’’ or ‘“‘wagons’’, great wheeled
boxes with a capacity of half a ton, which could be rolled
on and off the schooner. One of the best descriptions we
have of the industry in the 19th century 1s contained in a
book entitled ‘“‘The Georgian Bay’, written by C.L.
Hamilton in 1893, after making a sailing excursion on the
Bay. There were then over 400 men engaged in fishing in
Georgian Bay, and equipment included 150 boats, 15 tugs,

33
