# OCR Result for IMG_4314 2023-10-17 12_42_47.HEIC

Say,
young
Re 19 man, D,
co , Dr. Joh
Minuous hot water ve owner even built a model to sell his idea
. He’s now working on a device to prevent gasoline

Xplosion
1S ab,
oard power boats.

an trace his family back to

e 10005 f
; > when ris f

Ssach ee
ce trom Wiltshire
@ of | : :
Vard schol his ancestors established
nded a a and another
" ganeae in Wisconsin which
Downer university status. Yet
ler Served as a Surgeon On

ny

ete
'S SAlp Dolohin
; ~ P Dolphin, commanded by

Olin. Jones during th j
U g the American

On

yet has led a colorful
ae a radio ham in 1912.
equipment, and as 4
[Was approached by the

Marconi company to act as radio
operator On Great Lakes vessels — there
was a severe shortage of skilled operators

at that time.

During the First World War, he was hired

as a radio operator py the British Admiral-
ty and was. in fact, the first Canadian-
born operator to hold a commercial radio
licence. He was aboard the vessel

Ocean Prince when It ran aground and
sank in the Channel trying to evade
U-boats. He saw service In India, but fell
sick there and was discharged. He later
joined the army and finished up as 4
machine gunner in Vladivostok.

In his student days, Dr. D

era eee Heder ee ee

ee ene We had rooms next ‘to

Bloor Street at Avenue R o

and Banting used to ask me tod a

now and then for tea. He wa oo!

painter and | still have one ee
orks.

“Banting had a fine

Janguage which Ces a
vocabulary, Dr. Downer ee
night the insulin story broke n ae
and Mail called the house laa aee
and asked to speak to Banting { ok
him up and the air went blue. H ae
did answer the call.” [1] ae

