# OCR Result for IMG_4339 2023-10-17 12_43_41.HEIC

: Iron Ore Moose Mountain
Information supplied by CN Reference Library,

Key Harbour iron ore dock and buildings, 1908.

s one of the largest, richest and most
sits in North America was found at
jles north of Sudbury, 15 miles
ly 80 miles by rail from Key

In the early 1900’
accessible iron ore depo
Moose Mountain, some 30m
west of Capreol, approximate

Harbour.
After a great deal of resea

that the mouth of the Key In
and best suited to build a por
ping. With a port located there,
mined iron ore could reach the U.
bringing in ore from Venezuela, Chile,
be cut considerably.

In October, 1905 MacKenzie and Mann entered into an
agreement with Moose Mountain Mine, Ltd., under which
the mine agreed to ship exclusively by James Bay Railway
Company all ore produced from its mines. The railway
agreed to construct a line from the mines to the company’s
docks planned at Key Inlet. (Reference: Record Group 30,
volume 1259, Minutes, James Bay Railway, October 27,
1905.)

Sir William MacKenzie and Sir Donald Mann, the owners
of the Canadian Northern Ontario Railway Company,
formerly James Bay Railway, would invest heavily in this
national mining project at the initial start of the port of Key
Harbour. At this time they envisioned that Key Harbour
would become the Pittsburgh of Canada.

rch and checking, it was found
let (Key River) was the closest
+ for the Great Lakes ship-
this vast unlimited and easily
S. The high cost of
and Sweden could

88

The History and Founding of Ke

Mine ° Sellwood,
Archives of

y Harbour

; and Dave Hudson

1906-1908
Canada, D-M- arote

t
,
Railway applied fora j
for Jands around Key |
In 1906
at com-

The Canadian Northern Ontario
Crown grant from the Government
Harbour and north to the mainline tracks.
MacKenzie and Mann acquired Crown grant No. 7th
prised 1112.7 acres of land being part of Henvey, Indian j
Reservation No. 2 on both sides of the mouth of Key Inlet. §
Instrument 11133 was registered patent dated December !’, |
1907 and was filed January 25, 1908.

With their deed to the property and right of way, the CNO |
Railway started in May 1907 to lay the spurline railroad from f
Key Junction on the mainline a distance of seven miles © |
Key River Mouth. It reached the new harbour site and was
completed November 6, 1907. At the same time, May 190
the docks and buildings for the port were commenced all
completed in late 1908.

What MacKenzie and Mann did not realize it seem: at
the start of their planning and construction, was that it was
known to take three tons of coal to smelt down one ton?
iron ore. This coal would have to be brought in from
Pennsylvania or West Virginia at a very high cost. The pig
iron was then shipped back to the mills, not a very profitat™
method, The economical way was to take the ore ' fur

naces close to coal mines such as at Pittsburgh or Clevela®
f

When they realized this situation, so went their pla"

the little Pittsburgh of Canada at Key Harb0’’ }

MacKenzie and Mann did plan for smelters in Torn

|

ore iS transferrec
on to the trestle «
pelt carries the o
passed to anothe
to the steamer.

scum of Key Rive
Neve ‘cated on app
the cccveloped for a

ENO became os

Key H
buildings
Clecty ep

arbour por
for chutes ;
“labora: Ower was «
the , © tunnel and
shin. dings and
Bs. ck

The «
Were ¢ first iron ae

Inj ‘Pped out of}
by; 2 SO

dj meo
dogy BBS and ay =

a
elevating
