# OCR Result for IMG_4266 2023-10-17 12_41_03.HEIC

This
- the
d to

elief
the
that
men
ye
east
mill
ined
1 the
and
war

949.
Pat),
t oc
urea.

MCINTOSH ¢ FRENCH RIVER MOUTH, U.S.
AND KEY HARBOUR

(As told to the
editor by
Reg McIntosh)

Reg McIntosh
and the first

snowplane he
built, 1927.

Reg McIntosh was born at French River Mouth in 1903,
and was raised there where he also went to school. He
worked for his father when he was old enough, and stayed
with him until the late 20’s. After the first World War he
became very interested in gasoline engines.

Reg was the first person to come up with the idea and
also to build a snow plane or snow boat. His first vehicle
was a long toboggan with a motorcycle engine and a
homemade propeller mounted on the back. The first trip
with this toboggan nearly proved a disaster when he came
to a short stretch of open water. Fortunately he developed
enough speed to skip it across, but he felt very lucky. Reg
vowed then to build something that could go over ice, snow,
or water. For such a machine he also knew he needed a more
powerful engine.

In 1927, he ordered an aeroplane motor from his friends
to be shipped up from Lorain Air Services, Ohio. This
engine was a 2 cycle Lawrence. Reg also ordered metal and
wood from Parry Sound, shipped in by train. In two weeks
he had built the first rough snow plane with no windshield
making it a cold ride.

The first people to see Reg on his test run, up the French
River, were Bud West and Lymon Everingham. They
couldn’t believe their eyes and felt sure he would kill himself
in this funny looking craft.

Later they and Ted King would work with Reg on
improving and building the plane. A number were built in
the lower part of the bay.

In the fall of 1954, Reg McIntosh sold one to John Lahti
for transportation to Key Harbour from Highway 69.

Reg was very interested in aeroplanes by this time. First
he took an aeronautic correspondence course, then went to
Lorain Airway Service, Ohio, for flight training. There, on
November 11th, 1929, Reg received his diploma for his
primary flying course. -

On August 31, 1931 Reg was awarded a certificate from
the U.S. Aviation Institute and also was presented with one
of the first set of gold wings as a Master Pilot. This certainly
was an honour and something he has cherished all his life.

After receiving his license he barnstormed in the
summertime over many states in the U.S. In the winter
months he would return home to the French River where

Reg MclIntosh’s “‘vintage’”’ plane. It crashed on the ice at
French River Mouth injuring Reg.

he trapped furs.

He built a hangar for his plane across the river where
Thompson’s French River resort is today.

He told us about the time, one winter, when he was taking
off and reached about 100 feet up. Then one of his control
cables to the elevators broke loose and locked the rudder.
His plane came down nose first and crashed on the thick
ice. Reg was seriously hurt, with broken ribs and collarbone.
The plane received a great deal of damage. For years Reg
had X-ray plates of his injuries on the windows of the
Toonahville Trolly, as many travelers remember.

Reg married Mary Beatrice Heasman of Elmvale, in
August 1937. Mary was a school teacher for a number of
years near Parry Sound.

Reg and Mary have two sons, John Lorne and Robert.

John is in the Canadian Armed Forces (Navy section)
stationed at the Dartmouth base in Nova Scotia. He is a
Chief Warrant Officer and has been decorated with a
number of service medals.

In March 1961 he married Margaret (mee Fillmore) of
Advocate Harbour Cumberland county, Nova Scotia. They
have five daughters: Jacqueline Marie; Dawn Louise;
Patricia Diana; Susan Fillmore; Stephanie Evangeline. All
of the children are very active in sports and religious
activities.

Robert is still living in his father’s and mother’s home on
French River Island and works in the area in the summer
months:

Reg took over the job of running Gauthier’s Jitney Service
in 1937 and ran it until 1944.

Reg and Mary then moved back to French River Mouth
in September 1944, They purchased the home that his
brother Robert ‘‘Pat’’ McIntosh owned. Reg also took over
and operated the family sawmill. Reg ran the mill until 1954.
After closing it down he sold it to Edwin Aalto at Key
Harbour. The mill is still in use.

Reg and Mary operated a marina gas and oil service for
years at the French for the boats traveling the bay and the
local fishermen. Reg with his tugs made many trips each
summer to the Harbour for supplies. When the new
Highway 69 crossed the Key in 1955, he was able to pick
up his gas and oil at the Highway.

17

t
