# OCR Result for IMG_4409 2023-10-18 18_56_04.HEIC

BELANGER ¢ BYNG INLE
1866 to Present

As told by Edward Belanger

syexcee Belanger left Mattawa On

dren, in the spring of 1866, Th alo with his wife and

sc e family
‘ al fl ey , came
et and settled there, after making the lon to

T - BRITT

Byng
‘ pirch-bark canoes, with Indians as eee trip
ghe long trip proved to be too much for Nix :
the fall of 1866. His wife was left with ne he died
anging In age from 14 years old to 2 years Theit ide
ere: JOS Mary, David, Kate and Jim. _ children

Mary, Kate, J 1m and their mother emigrated to H
connecticut US. in 1870. Joe and David stayed on ee
in the ee industry, in the Byng Inlet area 0 work
Joe Belanger married Katheri
shildren. oe a) Thc) bad &

David Belanger married Josephine (Lamore) who arrived
in Bye Inlet in 1870. David and Josephine had 16 childr
Linger, Xavier, Adeliade, Gerime, George (died in 1978),
Amanda, William, Gerima Vetinleen (died), Clara Bill,
Agnes, Herman, Sadie, Nora. Edith (died when very oun)
and Edward. There are six of the Belanger family still living
in 1982.

David Belanger homesteaded the present farm located just
north of Britt village in 1911. Edward the youngest son took
over the farm. He and his son David are still living on the
farm. They grow mixed farming crops on the homestead.

Edward Belanger married Frances (Pardice). They have
5 children: Arthur, Jeniffer, David, Clare and Benidict.

The eldest Arthur and his wife Jacqueline (St. Peter) have
3 children: Arthur Jr., Kevin and Brian. Arthur and his

family live in a new home on the homestead farm.

ROMESBOTTOM ¢ BYNG INLET
by Mrs. E. Bennett

Jonathan Ramesbottom came to Byng Inlet in 1875. He
married Mary (Pilon). She came to Byng Inlet in 1887.
Jonathan was a millwright for Graves Bigwood, and
Magi for the area.

ae aa Mary had 14 children: Jonathan, ee
Jim, John, Earl, Leah,Harvey, Maud, mae Edward, Lola,
G - Grant and Jennie died as babies. a

Bere inom (Jonathan’s son) came to cue as
1876. Robert was Mrs. E. Bennett’s father, oa ie One
(McCaffery). They had a family of three; Shirley (S ae
riel (Mrs. Edward Bennett) and Patricia une ee a
Brown (they are both deceased.) Robert He er
scaler and lumber inspector who worked in ae
Mrs. and Mrs. Edward Bennett lived in

retired in 1957 and moved to Britt to live.

Author’s Note:
The Author apologizes
families not included int
Time, space and respo
information included.

for the many pioneer, and local
hese Britt and Byng Inlet pages.
nse to inquiries, limited the

Left to right — David and Josephine Belanger and fier
youngest son Edward.

BOAT SINKINGS IN NORTHEASTERN
GEORGIAN BAY

Other ships and boats that were wrecked or sank in the
bay over many years were numerous.

One of the tugs that towed log rafts from the French River
was the ‘‘Schoolcraft’’. She hit a rock near the middle of
the bay and sank in the 1920’s.

July 19, 1878 — Sailing Ship ‘‘Collingwood,”’ 44 tons,
burned and sank 1/2 mile from Byng Inlet.

July 22, 1878 — “‘Mary R. Robertson,” 247 tons, burned
in Byng Inlet Harbour. :

July 2, 1902 — ‘‘Minnie Hall,’’ 42 tons, destroyed by fire
in the Magnetawan River, Byng Inlet.

August 1903 — ‘‘The Northern Bill,”’ a passenger and sup-
ply ship, caught fire in the Magnetawan River outlet. All
passengers were taken off safely. With a strong west wind,
it drifted up Byng Inlet where it went aground on the south
shore, across from the Boy Scout camping grounds in Britt.
The ship burned to the waterline. The lower deck and oak
timbers are still visible.

June 13, 1915 — Tug ‘“Evelyn’’ out of French River Mouth.
46 tons, sank 1 mile southeast of Byng Inlet entrance.
August 21, 1917 — “Tames Reid,’’ 123 tons, sank 5 1/2
miles east of gas buoy, Byng Inlet.

August 6, 1920 — ‘“‘Pukwana,’’ 92 tons, burned in
Magnetawan River.

A gas boat owned by the Pilons of Midland sank in the
late 1960’s off Bad River Mouth. A sailboat, ‘‘Coral’’ was
wrecked at the Bustard Islands.

The above information in part came from many government
sources and individuals, Mrs, E.B. Bennett, Edwin Aalto,
Jim McIntosh and others. We do not suggest the above are

all correct dates or data as fact.
157

