# OCR Result for IMG_4268 2023-10-17 12_41_04.HEIC

Launce.

Camp McIntosh

Macdougal Bay — French River Mouth

JIM AND LORETTA McINTOSH

Jim received his schooling in Parry Sound. Over the years
he worked in lumber camps as timekeeper. He was a boat
builder and, during the war years, he worked in the
munitions plant at Nobel. Jim worked for DeHaviland
Aircraft Company in Toronto and also operated Camp
McIntosh at French River Mouth.

Jim married Loretta Tyson from Killarney in 1937.

The MclIntosh’s started their tourist camp on the west
Shore of French River Mouth in 1946. They had a family
of three, two daughters and one son, James. James, when’
only two years old, was drowned near the camp dock in
1946.

Jim built all the tourist resort buildings, furniture and
docks. He was a proficient boat builder and built their own
boats, plus many for local residents — from 12-foot fishing
boats to 32-foot cruisers.

During the years 1931-1950, Jim worked on Reg
McIntosh’s first invention and over the years developed the
snow plane or snow boat to the perfected vehicle in use
today. Most snow boats are thirteen feet long and five feet

wide. They are flat and slightly curved at the front with a
meta] bottom extending halfway up the sides. Jim never did
enclose his, just used a windshield. This vehicle will travel
over snow, ice or water.

or aoa a ="

h “‘Arawan’’ built by Jim McIntosh.

Hil

* aS ti sabe « ae.
Loretta and Jim McIntosh.

Most of the snow planes in later years were closed in for
protection. Jim made many long trips in his snow plane,
one to Gore Bay, Manitoulin Island, and one to Parry
Sound.

Jim and Loretta operated their Camp McIntosh until
1973, when they sold it to Bruce Thompson of Toronto.

Their two daughters are married, one lives in London,
Ontario, and the younger in Toronto. Loretta McIntosh died
suddenly in January 1981.

BRUCE THOMPSON AND FAMILY

The Thompsons from Toronto purchased Camp
McIntosh in 1976, from Jim and Loretta McIntosh. They
have made many improvements since and also have
continued with the American plan accommodation.

Bruce purchased all physical assets from Gauthiers
Fisheries in 1978. Lumber salvaged was used for camp
purposes.

The family consists of his wife Nora, Randy and Tracey.

Nora does the cooking assisted by Randy’s wife Gwen
(nee) Rich. Randy and Gwen have one child, Jennifer.

Ice ridge, Marilyn McIntosh, Jim MclIntosh’s
snowplane.

19

