# OCR Result for IMG_4340 2023-10-17 12_43_44.HEIC

yplied for 4
round Key
= [In 1006
7 that com-
yey, Indian

lab

e first j
Wee qs On ore pellets from Moos

a Ke

HOW THE MINERAL WEALTH OF CANA

DA IS DEVEL

B Reis
ae.

ore is transferred from the trai Oe
ain to the steam eee Jone me — Ore docks at Key Harbor, where the

following manner. The train is brought

on to the trestle on the stockpi. i
‘pile, w
belt carries the ore to the small Se ame Lacie este Tat)
passed to another belt, on which it is ie Ee BIS Ges the ore automate) ei ed and
elevated to the dock trestle in enormous Cee oa whi Ne oe
's, from which it is spouted

to the steamer.

“Standard”? August 13, 1916

Tron ore dock hopper

S i ae River Mouth, their smelters were to have
Tver fed on approximately 900 acres. This land was
he CNO a for any use of the railroad or docks. In 1917

S Haren oe of the CNR.
uildings our port consisted of a very lone dock and
Aectric or chutes and loading. A cement power house for

nee was completed in 1908. There also was an
the brane! and conveyer belt to transport the ore from

* Ouildj
thips, dings and chutes for loading into the holds of the

¢ Mountain Mine

:
In ae out of Key Harbour in 1909.
lng some one attempted to blow UP the ore dock and
bok and a resulting fire destroyed parts of the Joading
elevating trestle. Reconstruction Was carried 0”

buildings Key Harbour.

during the winter months. Most of the ore dock was ready
for opening the spring shipping season of 1913. Good
Friday of that year saw another tragedy hit the docks in the
form of a severe windstorm. It blew down the incline and
trimmed more than half of the train shed off the top of the
ore storage building. In the fall of the same year, before
all the windows were replaced in the incline gallery, an
early freak snowstorm blew up and filled the buildings with
snow. It melted, then froze solid, and forced the closing of
the port early that fall.

The last iron ore shipments left Key Harbour in 1916 when
the loading was switched to Depot Harbour at Parry Sound
and other ports ‘n Ontario that could accommodate larger
ships. At this time, the ore dock closed down and was

dismantled, in the 1920's and 30’s.
89

