# OCR Result for IMG_4398 2023-10-17 12_45_53.HEIC

° BYNG
THE MITCHELL FAMILY
(As told by Alan Mit eee cotland to
David Mitchell came from See factory in
Canada in 1907. He first worked ee teio be, Elizabeth

Karney. While working there he met hi ie
Ball. They were married in eS) a was the sister
family originally came from Clearwater.

of George Ball and sister-in-law of Bert ee whet

The Mitchells moved from Karney to Byng 7 etal

David obtained work firing eleven boilers used for d
d by Graves Bigwo°

power in the large lumber mill owned bY | farm
& Company. Mr. Mitchell then purchased a 250-acr a
at Ludgate from the Ludgate Thompson Lumber Comp

: ; i nd property. The
who were phasing out their operations and Pp
Mitchells moved to Ludgate in 1925. While their new home
was being built on the recently purchased farm nor theast
of Key River and the CNR tracks, the family lived in Mrs.
Mitchell’s brother-in-law’s house on Portage Lake nearby.

Mr. Mitchell worked at the Schroeder Mill, Lost Channel
Pakesley. They moved into their farm home in 1926. The
family worked the farm and raised livestock and produce
for family use while at Ludgate.

Mr. Mitchell found, when he applied for his deed to the
farm that he could not obtain one as Ludgate and Thompson
Company had only leased the land from the Government
for timbering rights. They could not sell it, as they did not
own it outright.

The Mitchell children received their education at this time,
like many others in isolated areas, by mail correspondence
courses. When the school opened at Ludgate in one of the
old lumber company’s buildings, they then attended school
there. Wilmot Hurd taught there for two years, 1929-30.
Some of his students were the Mitchell children. Alan
remembers Wilmot Hurd as his teacher for one year, 1929.

When the Mitchells first moved to Ludgate, David had
an argument with a Charles Waite after a school meeting.
Later an altercation took place and Waite shot and slightly
wounded Mr. Mitchell. Waite at the time was running the
store at Ludgate. Later when the court case came up, the
court ordered Waite to leave Ludgate area permanently,

Mr. David Mitchell was highly thought of in the
community. He was a very honourable, honest and hard

working man, also an excellent carpenter,

In the late 1920’s Marvin Mitchell, while hunting ducks,
was pulling a hammer-type shotgun out of a boat and
accidently shot his arm off at the shoulder. Before they could
reach medical help, he bled to death.

The Mitchells lived at their Ludgate farm for
years, as their house burned down in late 1929. T
presumably started by kindling wood beside
catching fire. No one was hurt in the fire,

They moved to Sudbury, where Mr.
work as a carpenter in Falconbridge,
Sudbury, the family came back to Key Riy
Alan Mitchell recalls some of the famj
interest while they lived at Byng Inlet
146

Only three
he fire was
the stove

Mitchel] obtained
While living jn
er for vacations,

ly happenings of
and Ludgate.

DGATE, KEY RIVER

ey r, David, worked at the Gr ;
Wile Be oie on a night shift, he fa ABN,
ie ee he was very proud of his elegant he
oe he, His working companions Were full of trick
moustat cut off one side of his Ss 89
while he slept they a MARNificen
stache. Needless to say, when David Woke and fo, l
ee had happened, he was all set to do bodily harm Md
ee He never did find out who had done this i e
Save at Ludgate farm, the children did not haye a
things to entertain theme Of their oy),
making. They soon caught onto Halloween trick o, treats

In those days, before the roads came along, there Were
many hunting camps built close to the railroad tracks fo,
deer hunting. The hunters would come north by Special
trains and be dropped off at their camps about October 30th
or 31st. It was usually on Halloween night when they came
up to their cottages to open them up for the deer Season,
As there were a lot of these camps close to Ludgate, the
Mitchell children would walk both ways on the railroaq
tracks tricking and treating all the hunters. It was alway;
very rewarding as the hunters brought special treats with
them for their expected visitors.

Alan also remembers derailments in the Ludgate area. One
stands out more than the others: A train had derailed its
cars and one car, filled with Shredded Wheat cereal, had
broken open. The children talked to the railroad guard at
the wreck to try to get some. All he said was “I’m not
around here at times, and what I do not see, I cannot do
anything about.’’ The Mitchell children, when this chance
came, hurried up the Key River with boatloads of cereal,
nearly a spare bedroom full. Alan recalls they all had their
fill of Shredded Wheat, by spring.

David and Elizabeth Mitchell had thirteen children;
Margaret, Marvin, J essie, Aime, Alan, Fraser, Jack, Helen,
Erma, Doug, Jean, Harry, Patrick. David Mitchell passed
away in 1954. Elizabeth Mitchell was later married to Jame

Davis formerly of Pakesley and retired. Elizabeth died in
1976,

At
Mleba,

THOMAS ALAN MITCHELL FAMILY KEY RIVER

Man first worked in Falconbridge smelters 2 *
ee mechanic. While there, he met Eileen Taylot:
a ee married in 1946 and lived in Sudbury. ot
became = ey and Eileen moved to Levack where S
Dien miner. They raised their family there: Rom”
Tee and Ann. The Mitchells lived in Levack U"

: ; me Alan retired and moved t : oe
nthe ate fo ti 1 .
i coor rues, Alan obtained some land foi ell

turned it cliff north side, near first narrows:
« Over to his mother. She had Bob Currie 4

SO : : ‘of; the
N Harry build a log cottage on the property, which Ut

: old later to Leonard Taylor: i
ther and his wife. Ronald moved to Vane

; gner purchased this Taylor!
rom Ronald Taylor.

e sold
vel:
pitch

family used. It was 5
It to his bro

In 1969, 9
» Orval \v
homestead Me

children; }
Lily-

Mr. Tay
died in Ne

Lifetime
Mazure ar
Ste. Marie
the CNR «

The Maz
There wer
received tl

Mike an
to work fc
Mazure d

JEULES
Jeules,
Schroeder
On the Gr
When he
Ludgate ;
UNted iI
J Cules -
fules an
TS. Ma:
to Helen
Nattiage

“Ottage, -
At this ¢;
Oana:

Ir
ung al

SS
nen oy
: hag V

