# OCR Result for IMG_4284 2023-10-17 12_41_45.HEIC

oTY Sawdug

the contro}
srefrom Wag
ne Overseer.
d the job of

inged Much
vas a closeg
ovember, It
“S, AS Was a
| general gill
> as In 1969
than Pound

“Ts the most
end of the
seines, and
As recently
UMMEer Was
| Islands by
bays with
three men,
\eir catches
| fishermen

, the Thirty
nade in the
y the outer
vhich com-
. SINCE; for
ns, the two
years.
flunctuated
1, and the
whitefish,
ome. Once
sroduction
of 1 1/4 to
ther hand,
was under
easured im
catches of
ul periods:
rupt reture
isappown

rd Harris:
the fishe?)
r the pea
1905, ne
5 863,000
/2 millio®
e the rush
the subse
picts d
alf of

Presi ———— a. ~ ihe

GAUTHIER FISHERIES ° BAD RIVER
— 1896-1969

Charles Harold Gauthier was born in Wind

sor. His wife,
Edith, came from Wardsville.

Gauthiers started their fishing operation in the north end
of Georgian Bay at French River Mouth. Their next camp

was built in 1896 on a rock island in the west channel of
Bad River.

In 1916, Mr. Gauthier leased an island, or parcel KG6765,
from the government. It was situated on the eastern side of
the Bad River Channel where it opens into the bay, north
northwest of the Bustard Islands. The Gauthier Fisheries
has been situated there since 1916. They also had an out-
post camp at Champlain Island. The fishing season was from
early May through November.

Gauthier Fisheries, when at their peak, operated a fleet
of six boats. One was a 60 ft. steel tug named “Edith
Gauthier’’ one was a 38 ft. tow boat, and there were four
30 ft. fishing boats. In addition, they owned two SCOWS, one
steel and one wood. These were used for pile driving equip-
ment and the assortment of other equipment needed to set
the nets. Gauthiers were pound net fishermen and set their
nets in the areas around Bad River, Bustards, Gull Shoals,
and southwest of Key Harbour.

Ted McCauly was for many years in charge of Gauthier’s
twine work netting. He was an expert in the preparation of
nets. Before he left Gauthiers in 1946 he had taught Johnny
Mallette the skills of his trade well, and Johnny became
Gauthier’s twineman in 1947. When Bill Belanger,
Gauthier’s general foreman, resigned in 1955, Johnny
Mallette became general foreman until 1963, when Bill
returned to assume his previous position and remained with
Gauthier’s as foreman until the camp closed in 1969. Bill
Belanger was Gauthier’s general foreman for the most
number of years.

x

Gauthier’s home base operat

ion at Bad River. Photos from Gauthier family.

Gauthier purchased most of his nets from John Leckie
Limited, Toronto. The raw netting was manufactured in
Scotland. Leckie produced the length and width of net to
Gauthier’s specifications.

The webbing (or netting) was hung or attached to an
18-thread, tarred manila rope to suit whatever depth of water
the pound net was to be set in.

Species taken in the nets were whitefish, yellow pickerel,
lake trout, northern pike, sturgeon, catfish, and redfins.
Only trout and sturgeon had to be cleaned before shipping.
All others were only boxed, iced and then shipped.

The Northern Navigation Company’s service boats ceased
calling at the Bustard Islands in the 1920’s. The company
had been servicing the area and picking up Gauthier fish
for shipping. This left only one means of shipping the
catches, by rail from Key Harbour on the spur line Jitney
service.

When Arthur Gropp decided to retire from running the
Jitney service in 1921, Gauthier took over. He expanded and
furnished the necessary equipment. (See Key Harbour Jitney
Service story page).

The Gauthier family spent the winter months in their
home in Windsor. Each winter they left a caretaker to look
after the buildings and equipment. Some of these
were: Bill Light, Fred Light, William Belanger, Jim Secord,
Johnny Mallette, and Billy Oakes. These caretakers would
have all their supplies brought in in the fall before they
closed the camp in late November, to last the winter.

Over the years, Gauthiers would average 14 to 16
employees. Arnold Hudson worked one year for them; Bill
Moody, a short time one spring; Johnny Mallette’s sons,
John and Gordon, Larry Secord, and the McIntosh boys,
as well as many others worked for them over the years. Mrs.
Bill Light, nee Olive Hazard, cooked for the Gauthiers for
many years, assisted by Mrs. Plaskitt, Minnie Oakes, and
Tillie Mitchell. Bill Light’s brother, Fred, died of a heart
attack while setting pound nets at the Umbrellas.

