# OCR Result for IMG_4329 2023-10-17 12_43_21.HEIC

the children received their education from November to
March.

From the 1920’s until the 1950’s the Lahti family came to
Key Harbour by CNR on a mixed train from either Coniston
or Sudbury to Key Junction, then by Jitney Express to the
Harbour. After the completion of the Highway 69 across
Key River and on to Sudbury, they would drive to the River
and ply the 8-1/2 miles to their island in their own boats.

John Lahti was involved in many other activities in Key
Harbour vicinity. Over the years he purchased islands and
lots at the Harbour. He built the Gulf Service station and
Marina located at Highway 69 and Key River, where he had
previously bought some property on the northwest side of
the highway. This marina and service station is still in
operation.

The Lahtis with their boats hauled supplies and building
materials down river for local residents and summer
cottagers and the family helped build some cottages. John
Lahti helped many residents in many ways over the years.

In 1944 he obtained the contract from the CNR to
demolish the remaining iron ore docks and pull most of the
pilings. With their piledriver puller and scows they first
removed the decking, then pulled the piers or piling poles.
These timbers, if in good shape, were cleaned and processed
through the Lahti sawmill into different types and sizes of
building materials. This lumber and timber was used in the
building of many cottages, docks and other buildings in the
late 40’s and 50’s in the area. The poor timbers were cut
into firewood.

A few years later John Lahti also purchased 400 feet of
the then unused coal dock owned by the CNR, and this he
tore down. He also salvaged deadhead logs in many of the
bays in the Key Harbour area. These made excellent lumber
when cut and dried. Lahti also bought logs locally to cut
for lumber in their mill.

Francis Lahti purchased the old power house building at
the Harbour after the equipment had been removed
sometime in the late 40’s. The building was then used as an
extra icehouse, and boat and machinery storage space, for
a number of years.

In the 1950’s, when Hurricane Hazel hit the harbour,
Lahti’s fisheries suffered, like everyone else, a great deal
of damage to their docks and nets, approximately $5,000
worth from Art’s records.

Lahtis used two islands near their home base for tarring
and treating their nets. One was Tar Island (well-named)
and the island where the late Ed Becker built his cottage.
On these two islands they set up two large metal pots or old
bathtubs. In these vessels coal tar was boiled and the pound
nets were dipped in this solution to save them from algae
rotting of the mesh. After dipping the nets they were

stretched out on flat rocks to dry before using again.
ae ae aes Se in a lime water solution asa
a , you can see these islands with
some of the discarded nets and tar pots still in eviden
Key Harbour today. Even in the early years nets w. ae
(For more detailed inf. i ere costly.
ormation on gill and
see Commercial Fishing article.)

78

pound net fishing

During the fantastic whitefish catches of ne oe.
they were at their peak years, Lahtis caught a
whitefish in one haul in their pound nets, SO the e records
show. This large quantity of fish required a railway car full
of ice to be sent to the Harbour from Capreol, in a rush
to save the catch for sale in Canadian and U.S. markets.

In the 1950’s Lahtis purchased the first ““smow plane’’ or
“snow boat’’, sold by Reg McIntosh since he came up
with the invention. This purchase enabled the family to reach
the Harbour and the Highway during the fall freeze-up and
break-up in the spring. This plane was used by the family
for years. The remains of the frame and motor are in
evidence at the Gulf Marina at Highway 69.

For many years Lahtis cut the ice blocks (tons of it) for
their icehouses by hand from the lake close by. When the
water was very low, making it harder to cut close, they
brought in a horse loaned from a Key Junction resident to
haul the blocks to the icehousé.

In the depression years, like others in the area, the Lahtis
also fished some in the winter months through the ice, a vely

unpleasant task. The prices for their catches were also very

On the right Arvid
Lahti Sr. Left - Arvid’
wife Irene with 4
sturgeon weighing &P
proximately 60 155.
Lahti’s dog “Paddy
and their cat.

|

a cote i,

Lahti Sawmill.

Poor: pike 10¢ pe
mullet Or sucker
ishing success +
Teaking work a
management, . 1

Settin
in 1969 "1s cach
siogtuel and his
197g Highwa
in °Y are |
(Mags ave eig’
est n
Man

