***PROCESSED***
![“French River.” a thriving lumber town on Georgian Bay.]

Caption: Left: Ontario Lumber Company Mill. Centre: the harbour’s

# Lumbering At French River Mouth 1875-1930

In 1872 the Honorable Thomas Foster, then minister of
Crown Lands of Ontario, obtained legislation and opened
up a vast, previously untouched area to lumbering around
the northeastern shore of Georgian Bay and all rivers
emptying into the Bay. This included the French River and
all its tributaries.

At this period of Ontario and Canada’s development (late
1800’s to early 1900’s) the cutting of the virgin pine forest,
and resulting lumbering was a very important part of the
country’s growth. The increased development of the industry
in Georgian Bay was greatly encouraged by the reconstruc-
tion boom in the U.S. following the end of the Civil War
and increased emigration to Canada, especially Ontario.

Large numbers of workers were required in the 40 to 50
years of this natural resource industry. At nearly all river
mouths, mills and communities soon sprang up to accom-
modate the company workers and their families. Many such
towns have now vanished.

The lumberjacks, with axes and saws (mostly axes), cut
these virgin forests from 80 to 100 miles inland for different
lumber companies. The cutting areas were generally north
and east from the French River mouth. Logging was done
on both sides of the French, Pickerel and Wanapitei rivers,
east to Lake Nipissing. Also west of the French River mouth
to Voyageurs Channel. Most of these millions of logs were
eventually processed through the mills or boom companys.
On Macdougal Bay at the mouth of the French River, two
miles inland from Georgian Bay.

To process and produce finished lumber products from
this vast timberland required large mills. The lumber com-
panies and their mills, were established at the mouth of
French River at Macdougal Bay. This being the most cen-
tral and accessible outlet to Georgian Bay and eventually
to the vast commerce of the Great Lakes by boat and barge.

Photo by J.W. Bald.

““WABB TOWN” e ““COPONANING”’
“FRENCH RIVER VILLAGE”’

Sam Wabb, brother-in-law of Peter McIntosh the father
of John McIntosh, came to French River mouth in the
early 1870’s to trade with local Indians and others traveling
the river. He was the first white man to permanently settle
there.

Sam built a large store and trading post, docks, and a
house for his family. The buildings were located on the east
shore of Macdougal Bay below the Dalles Rapids.

Shortly after Sam arrived, and the area was opened up
to lumbering, some companies obtained cutting leases and
moved there. One of the first was the Walkerton Lumber
Company, but they did no great amount of cutting in the
early years compared to what followed. At this time, around
1875, the companies started to build mills and townsites for
their employees.

Wabb saw the possibilities for more income and built six
to eight rough houses to rent to the workers who were
doing the building and working for the mills. This small
original settlement was appropriately called “‘Wabb Town’’.

After he was established there, his wife’s family, the
Moores and their relatives the McIntosh’s from Collingwood
came and settled in Wabb Town. Sam continued his business
until his death in 1915. Mrs. Wabb and his sons operated
the store until the 1920’s when they moved to Simcoe County
near Barrie.

COPONANING

In 1875, the Provincial Land Surveyor, Thomas Bolger
from Belleville, was commissioned to survey a townsite
at the mouth of the French River. He suggested the name
**Coponaning’’ for which the plan was named. The town
did not develop immediately to any extent until the

7

