# OCR Result for IMG_4313 2023-10-17 12_42_45.HEIC

Nearly 50 years ago, two Toronto men
puzzled over a cumbersome electric
water heater lying disassembled in their
basement. Although one of the latest
gadgets on the market, the heater was
attached to the outside of the water
tank and was notoriously inefficient.

“We figured that if we could devise an
element small enough to fit inside the
tank, all the heat would be put to
work,” recalls dentist—inventor

John Downer, then only a student.

Dr. Downer and his brother-in-law put
their heads together and came up with
a 500-watt heater that gave them a
constant supply of hot water. They even
insulated the tank with newspapers

and old diapers.

"1+ worked so well we patented the idea
and took it to Toronto Hydro, says

Dr. Downer, who now lives in a roomy
old home in Lawrence Park. “| guess we
impressed the manager because he
called in his assistant. and then they
called in the engineers. But the technical
men didn’t think it would work.
Anyway, we ended up installing our
heater in the assistant manager's home.
It took only three or four days to
convince him.”

The heaters were displayed in the
Toronto Hydro showrooms and Dr.
Downer and his brother-in-law installed
them around the city until 1930 when
the now familiar hairpin-shajed
element was introduced.

“It wasn't just a case of selling
immersion heaters, says Dr. Downer.
"Ne first had to sell people on the idea
of a constant supply of hot water. In
those days, most homes either hada
gas heater or a boiler at the back of the
coal range. If there was no fire,

there was no hot water. °

The notion of an electric immersion
heater is only one of a stream of ideas
that has flowed from Dr. Downers
agile mind. He quickly adapted the
immersion heater for Use as an engine
warmer for his Model-T Ford (some of
which he sold to Canadian General
Electric), and he developed an automatic
mixer for the silver compound used

for filling teeth —’ there are better ones
on the market now, but mine was

the first successful one.”

And he’s currently working in his ‘rat’
Dele a conglomeration of power
machinery, wires and radio a |
Pparatus in
the basement of his home —on a safety

device to preve i
nt gasoline explosi
aboard power boats. Peele

S)

“Basically, the idea reli
; elies on the chem|
Shy of hydrocarbon vapors. If ee
y chance of an explosio
n, the mot
won t start up when the igniti 7
€ ignition ke
turned. It should save a lot of lives fee

only trouble is !
, once I've got ; .
; an in
to work, | lose interest in it.” weg!

. Courtesy Ontario Hydro News Octob
» October,

Ses attributes his inventive

rae 0 his practical upbringing. His

a fo a Pattern maker by trade an?
ive cars about the time McLaughl"

and others wer j
: € enteri obile
business. ng the autom

ao ae Knowledge | gained as a kid!
Bold ae Made a living as a pattern
eee machinist or a foundryman.
them i People have ideas but can't put
nto practice. Fortunately, | have

both the ide
as a
background.” re a

1969

dui
. Iding

. Bsog man, Dr. John |
explo tinuous hot water. h
Sions aboard power bi

Dr
the renner can trace f
t 00s when his for
—ssachusetts from
me Se of his an
founded scholarship é
aS since. college in W
another p gained univel
the a Downer servec
"Ng ship Dolphi

nN Pa

ul Jones durin
; SS

Svol ti rink

a

le Down

Career Gon! himself ha:

© became a ra:
'S OWn equip

Um
Mer Student was af

