***PROCESSED***
attached to their bunks to eat. Later, when stoves came into
use, a separate cookery was built and the men had tables
at which to eat.

The equipment used in logging was very crude and no ef-
fort was made to conserve manpower. The axes were very
good and the men were expert in their use, but the first cross-
cut saws were poor. The trees were felled with the axe, but-
ted if necessary, and topped with the axe. Cross-cut saws
were only used for separating the trunk of the tree into logs.
Instances can still be seen in the woods where the old-time
chopper cut through a tree three times with his axe (felled,
butted and topped) and one saw-cut was made to get two
logs out of the tree. Teams of horses skidded the logs to
main roads where they were rolled into skidways by men
using canthooks. Decking lines and jammers were not in use
then. In the winter, the logs were hauled on huge sleighs
by horses to the nearest stream or lake to be driven down-
stream the next spring to Georgian Bay and towed in big
rafts to the sawmills. On the sleigh-haul the days were long
and arduous - the lead teams left the camp for work about
3 a.m. and it was often 9 p.m. when the tail team got back
to camp. Coal oil torches were used in the woods to show
light for loading logs in the early morning.

A logging project which helped to open up the country
was a tote-road known as the Pickerel Hills Road which the
Ontario Lumber Company built from their depot camp,
mentioned above, south to connect with the Great North
Road at Glenila in the southern part of Ferrie Township.
This gave them winter access to their camps from Parry

Sound, Rosseau and Gravenhurst, which was then the end
of the steel from the Grand Trunk Railway. Albert
McCallum (popularly called ‘‘Mac’’) used to carry the mail
from the Ontario Lumber Company’s five camps. He would
leave their depot camp in the northern part of McConkey
Township in the morning, have dinner at Glenila, thence
go to Dunchurch, pick up the mail and any other small
necessities (usually about 50 pounds) and return to spend
the night at Glenila, travelling a distance of 62 miles. He
would leave Glenila the next morning arriving back at the
depot camp at noon, another 35 miles. This was a weekly
expedition for ‘‘Mac’’. While making this 100 mile trip, he
would not walk over a couple of miles. He had a lope that
carried him at wonderful speed and he never seemed to tire.
Mr. McCallum later went into the logging business, taking
out timber in McKenzie and Hagerman Townships for
Graves & Bigwood.

For M.A. Adamson, District Forester.

WARPING TUGS ‘‘ALLIGATOR’”’

This vehicle was widely used in the lumber period.

This tug was a flat bottomed barge, square at both ends,
powered by a steam boiler operating a one cylinder steam
engine. The engine turned paddle wheels on each side. The
gears could be shifted to engage a large drum on which was
wound one mile of one inch steel cable.

![Warping tug at
work with log
rafts.]Warping tug at
work with log
rafts.

Under paddle wheel the tug would procee
boom to about the full length of the cable, then a large anchor was dropped and the tug returned to the log boom. Thegears were then shifted and the cable slowly wound up on the drum, thus pulling the log boom ahead reaching its final destination by this method.
By laying logs to act as rollers, the warmping tugs could pull themselves across portages from one lake or river to the next. The biggest and most time-consuming job on a portage was carrying water by pails to keep the boiler full. this type of barge or tug played a very important role of the lumbering period in this area

![Warping tug on overland portage] Warping Tug on overland portage
![The tug "Evelyn"]The Tug Evelyn userd by the French River Boom COmpany on French River. The tug "Evelyn" sank off Britt in the spring of 1915, on its trip back to French River Mouth from Midland, where it had been for repairs. No one was drownedin the sinking. Photo courtesy Bruce Thompson.
