# OCR Result for IMG_4359 2023-10-17 12_44_33.HEIC

rs
Key Harbour Pioneer Cottage

secti
up

ons of the old ore dock building, dismantled,
nd

river.

Until recent years, when poor health TEStricte

. TROTTER
Dw told by D

Barat er cottage each summer w; ate
MILY cKay visited her co with Mig? |
THE HAZZARD J eKay Mv : of the original pioneer residents of Ke dred tter first came to
As Told By Marion . : ad wath her daughter Mildred in Barrie Frente pM ae qa young civil en,
‘1 boats in tiv + Tred | 6.
sally with sail boa ay in 1967. Mek f 192 bee of the CNI
William Hazzard fished Bu ae pase was On passed away ty o pred) ae arbour so
: ly *s. Wiss : e sul- ul :
the late 1800 s and early Ve Islands. He fished the ae waters about with 5,000 tor
Green Island in the aon there. He also transpor a at KEY the bottom near the ¢
saree aa ee uiek possible from ER ee tuck OP showing the soundi
me - 2 sorts. Hazzard’s winter base W4° the ch level fluctuated as ©
Village to different I an the ee fe data would have |
Southampton. oS - to work on the new!) soundins ;
In early 1908, William came | month (0 ORE

ith construc-
opened dock site at Key Harbour. He fees vee a
tion of the iron ore dock and its associated DU g

5 i for
later worked for the CNR. At this time he Dee vee
his family on the southeast side of Pine Island.
zard died in 1924.

Around 1930, his wife, Delena, took over a :
a hoist engineer's summer home at the Harbour, no ne
the tracks and west of where Key Harbour cs on
she operated the first store at Key Harbour, assiste
Lawrence and Frank. They also distributed mail for the loca
residents. Delena passed away in 1940.

The Hazzards had eight children: Frank, Jim, Celia,
Olive, Margaret, and twins Marion and Willie. Willie died
at age seven. Lawrence, youngest of the family, lived in
Parry Sound. Lawrence died in April 1976.

nd renovated
th of

McKAY e¢ KEY HARBOUR,.
1908 TO PRESENT

Fred McKay was a machinist, steam engineer, boiler and
pump man. He first worked for the CNR on bridge con-
struction in British Columbia. Fred later came back east and
married Rose Williams who died at a very young age. They
had a son, Dennison.

After his wife’s death Fred came to Key Harbour in 1908
as construction supervisor on the docks. While there he met
the Hazzard family.

Mrs. Fred McKay (nee Marion Hazzard) was born in
Southampton on May 23, 1895. She first visited the Bustard
Island fishing camp on a holiday as a child. Marion re-
called sailing with her father while fishing. One time she ac-
companied him on the sailboat, when he took a load of
lumber from French River Lumber Mill to Goderich

Mrs. McKay made a number of trips from Owen So d
to Killarney on one of the Owen Sound Ty asocee
ace She remembers well how very sick she w o

Marion married Fred McKay in 1918
Capreol where Fred worked for B & B-CNR
children: the eldest, “‘Den’’ (stepson),
Mildred, married Russel Marrin and |
married R.W. McEven and lives in Wi

The McKays built their cott

1927 and finishing it in 1928,
theirs at the same time.
108

as On these

They lived jn
They had th
Tee
and two daughters:
Ives In Barrie. Jean
nter Haven, Florida
2 age on the rive :
heir friends. the
Both cott oe

' starting ip

Buele S 1
J fi |

&

Den McKay and his father Fred McKay.

'
:

Left —

DENNISON McKAY FAMILY :
Fredrick Robert Dennison (*‘Den”) McKay, bu? a
died September 14, 1980. Den McKay's first tp a
Harbour was when he was 14 years old. In pa
working for the CNR, unloading coal each Ua a
Harbour until 1930. Den then transferred 10 ae
telegraph company. In the summer of 1933 he a
the coal dock, on loan from the telegraph ee
The McKay family camped at Key. Harbout i “
mers of 1923-24. In 1925-26 they camped @ He
with his father and step-mother, spent 4s muct Ka)
available to him at Key Harbour. While ee sat
employed by the CNR as a telegrapher he ve
various locations in Ontario and Quebet
On October 18, 1932 Den married
Strathroy. They had three girls: Fay, Sally?
born 1934, married Henry Lambovitch; the! "
Laura Lee, Valerie and Larry. Laura at al
Vaillancourt; their children are: Leigh ‘oy
Valerie married Kenneth Mathews. PheY
Jason and Jennifer, Sally, born 1935,
Moir. They have three children: Chery” é
Shelly Sue. Cheryl married Mireslaw Se ol e
are Kevin and Krista. (contin

wel
zl SI

gE

have a fit :

rl Pt
be of
thet

py the time Trotter reach¢

eeelf— likely due to a:
freed i soundings and show
reer ean depth of wate
Ne 1928 Trotter was transfel
: s locations. In 194!
Capreol as Superintendent. I
part of this division. In the ‘
the Trotters had spent som
McKays at Key Harbour. T]
and, when he was transferred
built their present cottage 0
across the river from the Mc
for sale, they bought it.

There was no railway tra:
branch line from Key Junctic
last coal came into the harbc
Il. The tracks had been allov
of years.

In the late 40’s and 50’s lar
= - The Gauthier Jitne
- 4 Key Junction where |
fast = loaded into refrigt
and U ee trains to the re

trot Cities.

Tecalled that on
“Ommercial fisher |
Whitefish in rman, Jol
M Capreo] one pound net

e Bice a) buy ice. Her

St ber Saas of whitefis

und,

Urine ‘
Sale oF a; Trotter’s term as:

Teitover 0 feet Of the coal
ceda, S the Umbers and s:
Habou Made excellent

“Ottages have som

oe transferred

Povition Office in Mor

Dyes (Ul he retired 5
T

' es Spent most

Key. The rest |

2 Ome in Bai

ae away on J

ter Family: De

at yariou

tT
CNR

