# OCR Result for IMG_4327 2023-10-17 12_43_18.HEIC

LAHTI e SUDBURY AND KEY HARBOUR,
1906 - TO PRESENT
PIONEERS OF SUDBURY AND
KEY HARBOUR IN THIS CENTURY

(Taken from old records)

John Lahti and his wife Edla Maria came to Canada from
Finland shortly after the turn of the century. They first
settled in the Sudbury district at Copper Cliff for three years.

For the next six years John Lahti took different types of
employment in Michigan, Quebec and Ontario. The Lahtis
moved back to Sudbury in 1916, where they remained and
raised their family of four boys and four girls.

The Lahti family survived the ‘‘Great Fire’ at
Porcupine, Ontario, that killed so many in 1911. John was
working there at the time. He took his family in a boat out
to the middle of the lake, covered the boat with wet blankets
and they lived through the burning of the town by forest fire.

He bought properties in Sudbury and district over the
years, and started numerous businesses, which the members
of the family have carried on. In 1929-37 they operated Lahti
and Son’s Coal and Wood, on Lorne Street,

John also did prospecting and staked mining claims in
the area.

The Lahti family was instrumental in many aspects of life
and activities at Key Harbour and Key River over the past
60 years.

In 1921 John Lahti with two friends from Sudbury
District, decided to try their hand at commercial fishing near
Key Harbour. They started their new venture with only a
few hundred feet of gill nets, and one pointed wooden boat,
approximately 30 feet long, powered by a one-cylinder gas
motor. They named it ““The Pointer’’ and painted it red.
This boat had previously been used above the French River
“Dalles”? Rapids for logging. It was floated down the rapids
to the bay after the logging was phased out, and put up for

sale.
In 1920 John Lahti leased Island D350, approximately two

end oP
acres, located just south of the Harbour anne we ea
First Channel, later named “HIRE: ee ome Ae
homestead island had previously been Cee a cabin on

ly settlers. In the 1920’s there Was si
island.

anied his

accol®. 2

In August 1921 the eldest SOP» Ane ped with Se
father and friends to Key Harbour @ when torn, a0 also
of nets, treating and mending the oe of the family were
helped to handle the fish caught. 1A° i
still too young to help.

From 1921-24 they h
docks on the west side of Dea
also built another outpost camp © i

Harvey Lahti had a camp ies y,
Hazzard’s, just south of Roger's 1514

ad an overnight ne
d islane vnpiain Island.
ey formerly Frank
These camps were
: on as a port to lay

used only during the peak of ee aking it too rough
over in when there would be a ba Fey coul q wait out the

to tend their nets. In these camps sad shifts- The closeness |

etweenl Ww :
oo a quick run to clear their nets

h water periods. In the 20's, 30’s
ly as fast as In later
Jose to the nets as

storm, waiting for a jul
to their nets allowed th
and back between rougs
and 40’s the boats used wer
years, another reason for camps as ©
possible.

Different boats used by the La
“‘The Pointer’’, ““Aunt Chloe’’,
{I’’, steel boat “Black Maria’’ bul
the Great Lakes and “Bdla Maria’ bought
sold in the 1970's.

After a few years John

fishing and sold out their s
the operation himself in 1924, the

family consisted of sons

htis over the years were first
‘Phantom I’, «*Phantom
It in the southern part of
in the south and

»s friends gave up On commercial |
hares to him. When he took over |
whole family became |
involved in earnest — father, mother, boys and girls —a
family operation. John’s relatives Isaac and Arvid helped
him. In peak season he hired extra part-time help. The
Arthur, Samuel, Arvid and

Francis; daughters Martha, Mildred, Tyyne and Signe all

single at that time.

Lahti Family.

taken in 1940's.

Left to right standing — Marthe
Samuel Sr., John Lahti Sh
Arthur Sr., Edla Maria, Arid
Seated left to right — Mildred:

Tyyne, Signe, and Francs of

fess ae
and to build 1

married and

The Lahtis
docks, plus 4
had a sawn
fisheries and
asteam bath
chickens, P
cherished ve;
up the Key
Everyone in

