# OCR Result for IMG_4401 2023-10-17 12_46_00.HEIC

€ South
2 home
ar garet
Linda,
Ty and

fel Te: f; ’
Mrs.

They
jness
it 4

< for
raps

ritt-
jive

e in

Sedore’s Camp Dore, Key River

pORES * KEY RIVER, 1941
: prederick Alexander Sedore was bor
le married Lydia Anne Crittenden in 19
i Sussex, England. Fred and Lydia
gjizabeth Jane who married Bob McDo
ool Robert John Allen of Key River.
erhe Sedores purchased five acres in 194] on the northwest
ide of Hi ghway 69 and Key River, The family worked each
ail clearing away swamp and brush where Camp Dore ig
pcated today.

Fred built the camp’s excellent log cottages, using logs
that were cut back of their property. As the highway had
not reached Key River, all lumber and other supplies to build
their resort were brought by boat the one mile from the
CNR station at Ludgate.

Sedores built nine cottages and opened Camp Dore in
952. By this time Highway 69 had reached the Key from
the South. This made it possible for sportsmen to reach the
area by car.

After they completed building the camp, Fred helped build
some local cottages for a few years. He then left the running
of the resort in the capable hands of his wife and son Robert
(Bob).

Fred left the Key area to work for a time in the Honey
Harbour area. From there he moved to Barrie. His trade
in Barrie was that of small craft boat builder for the well-
known ‘‘Delaney Boat Works.”’ Fred was the designer of
some of Delaney’s excellent boats. He also was a fine
carpenter. Each spring and fall Fred returned to the camp
to assist in camp and boat repairs.

In the late 80’s he lives at Flesherton and is very active
helping his neighbours in many ways.

Camp Dore has served the public since 1952. The first
number of years they served meals American plan and also
had housekeeping cottages, until 1968. At this time
preparing meals became too much for Mrs. Sedore to
handle. Since then they only rent cottages. In 1977 Lydia
retired, at age 82, and moved into a hotel apartment in
Toronto.

Bob Sedore has been one of the prominent fishing guides
inthe area for years. When he retired from guiding in 1980
he was using his third cruiser for guiding his guests in.

Camp Dore has always been well kept, with good docks
and parking facilities for its guests. Bob now runs the camp

ably assisted by Blanche.

TO PRESENT
n at Lake Simcoe.
20. Lydia was born
had two children:
nald of Toronto and

Highway 69.

WHEELER © KEY RIVER

James K. Wheeler of Toronto w
William MacKenzie, partner of M
builders of railroads. J

as the nephew of Sir
acKenzie and Mann, the
ames Wheeler was a civil enginéer,
and worked for the Ontario Department of Highways. He
was superintendent for the building of Highway 69 from
Barrie to French River.

When Highway 69 reached the Key, the Wheelers stayed
at Hurd’s and, in 1949, bought Kelley Point, a short
distance down the Key from the bridge. This point was
heavily treed. James cleared it enough for him to build their
cottage himself. Over the years he added
Improvements. It is also known as Pickerel Point.

James and his wife Frances (nee Heffering) had three sons.
Robert, the eldest, is in the Air Division of the Canadian
Armed Forces, Manitoba; James, Kenneth and Ronald are
teachers in Toronto.

Mr. Wheeler passed away April 7, 1977. Mrs. Wheeler

spends most of the spring and summer months at her
cottage.

many

HEALE ° KEY RIVER
George Heale and his wife Laura are from Lively. They
have 3 children; Ellen, Patrick, John Paul.
George bought a lot and built their cottage on it in 1957.
The family visits the cottage regularly.

KESSLER ¢ KEY RIVER
PIONEER COTTAGERS

Winfred E. Kessler and his wife Mildred are from Elyria,
Ohio. They first visited the Key River in 1935 after a friend,
Frank Day, had recommended it for a wilderness fishing
spot.

Kesslers arrived at Hurd’s Ludgate Camp on the CNR’s
mixed train from Parry Sound, pulled by old engine number
2541. This mixed train ran north on Tuesdays and Satur-
days, and south on Mondays and Fridays.

On their first fishing trip down the Key, Winfred picked
out the spot he hoped soon to build their cottage on. It was
just east of Kelly’s Point on the north side.

Kesslers first acquired a license of occupation. In 1937
they leased a maximum size parcel of land of 5 acres.
Winfred and Mildred did all the work of building their
cottage on the lot. Later in 1950, when the land came up
for purchase, Kesslers only bought 1.73 of the original 5 acre
parcel, the rest reverted to the crown.

In 1982 the Kesslers will be spending their 47th consecutive
summer at the cottage. Winfred is 83 and Mildred 78. They
celebrated their 56th wedding anniversary on June 30, 1982.

WILLIAMSON ¢ ENGLISH ¢ DELLS

Mr. and Mrs. Julius Williamson of Barberton, Ohio,
purchased a lot next to Kesslers. They built a log cabin in
1947. Williamson sold the cabin and lot to Clare English
of Sudbury in 1961.

Clare English sold to Orin Dells of Niagara Falls Ontario
in 1968. The Dells visit their cottage each summer.

149
