# OCR Result for IMG_4402 2023-10-17 12_46_02.HEIC

Native Peoples of Northe

INDIAN HISTORY

as told by Nellie Ashawasega of the
Henvey Inlet Band of Ojibways

Frank Missabie is my late grandfather of Key River
My late grandfather’s grandparents, William and Susan
Missabie, came from Bear Island Indian Reserve near
Kirkland Lake, Ontario in about 1880. My late grandfather
is survived by his son Joseph Missabie and his wife and their
five children; two daughters and three soms all living 10
Bekanon. There is a total of five families living in Bekanon.
There is my sister and I who are also descendants of our
late grandfather.

My sister Emma King, married a band member from
Parry Island Indian Reserve near Parry Sound. They have
a family of two daughters. Mrs. King works for the Indian
Rights Commission of Ontario, in Toronto.

I work for the Henvey Inlet Band Council as the Band
Administrator. We opened our office on the reserve in 1975:
We now administer most of our programs: Operation and
Maintenance of Roads, Education, Recreation, Housing,
Water and Sanitation, Health Services, Welfare, Band
Economics, Employment, etc. Our Chieftess, Shirley
Ashawasega, is a daughter of the late Mr. and Mrs. Frank
Contin. Our Ist Councillor. Victor Ashawasega, is a son of
Mr. and Mrs. Percy Ashawasega. Our 2nd Councillor, Milton
Contin, is the son of the late Paul Contin of Key River.

We are under the Robinson-Huron Treaty of 1850. Two
of our reserves were formed under this treaty in 1852. The
Henvey Inlet Indian Reserve was set aside for Chief
Wagamake and his band in 1852. On our research project
this summer with high school students, we found an old
village where these negotiations took place with the late chief
Wagamake and Mr. Robinson on the Henvey Inlet Bay. In
the near future, the band is planning to build a new museum
on this spot.

The Lower French River Indian Reserve was set aside for
Chief Mishequea and his band in 1852. This is our main:
community for the two bands. From 1850 to 1900, our
ancestors livelihood was trapping, hunting, and trading
goods along the Georgian Bay trading posts. From 1900 to
1950, our ancestors livelihood evolved to agriculture. They
established permanent residents on the reserves, and
obtained a total new way of survival, by obtaining jobs from
building new railways that extend across Canada, opening
of saw mills, new highways that extend across Canada
and mines that opened in Sudbury. Immediately after ae
First World War in 1917, the entire village of Chief
Wagamake and his band were wiped out by the epidemic
Only a few families survived and moved to the Lower French
River Indian Reserve, these were the Missabie, Contin
the Ashawasega families.

and

From 1950 to 1980, our Indian Act gave us many Oppor-
tunities and disadvantages. We now can vote at federal elec.

150

astern Georgian Bay Are, |

enter public pubs, have Education and Welfare

ions, : ‘ ‘
e still struggling for equal rights on Many

assistance, and ar
issues.

From this period,
members worked on t
per and Nickel mines,
many of our band mem
unities in employment.
Many have returned to establish new businesses On the
erve to provide employment along with the bands
economic programs towards self-sufficiency.

As for the cultural values and aspirations of the Bate
we still have people who are traditionalists in these aspects,
Many are returning to their religion, arts and crafts, the
traditional values of trapping and hunting, language, and
history of their race. My late grandfather was my great
teacher in regards to ancient history of our people. I also
have been doing research and still am as a hobby on the
mysteries of the Sun Stone Calendar, better known as the
Aztec Calendar Stone for the past sixteen years: TMopeto 7
compile a book in the near future or when I have more time. |

The Sun Stone contains a geological time chart of 450

1950 to 1980, many of our band
he railway tracks and at Sudbury Cop.
and with educational Opportunities
bers moved to the cities for better

opport

res

million years, and a calendar of 50 million with the history |

of mankind. This is according to the ancients of the Westem
World, the ancestors of the American Indian, and what is
phenomenal of the Sun Stone is, it is all mathematically syn-
chronized. When my grandfather taught me how to tead
this calendar, this was when I began my research, in 1962.

There was a bush trail from Pickerel to Key River to
Bekanon and Henvey. Many Indian families travelled from
place to place, and it was hard to say where they called
home.

The Indian Bands at Pickerel and Henvey are of the Ojib-
way tribe. Moses Missabie was one of the chiefs of the Dokis
Band.

‘Paul Contin came to Bekanon, Key River area from the
Pickerel reservation. Paul was well known to Key Rivet
residents as Paul raised his family at Bekanon on the Key

River. Paul’s sons are: Lloyd, Milton and Murphy all living
in the area.

: Local Key Harbour residents remember the many India?
amilies that came to the area in small boats or smal
sailboats with red sails, to pick blueberries on the islan®:

See oes a well known Indian at Key Rivet a

other ao - Ernie worked for Hurds for many yea? a

his Se and cottagers. His father was Pat Missabi
uncles Frank and Charlie Missabie.

he °20'S and
o the

Jssac

Charlie Thompson
30’s w
Frencl
lived,

es son a well known guide int
as also a chief and came from New York State!
h River Mouth area where he and his brothe!

| deceased to

For generations
Dead
Mainland. Their |
ways) was to wrt
belongings in eit]
Then their bodie:

Another meth
rocks (as the isla
with many rock

The purpose
the bodies safe f:
not keep the sac
with two legs ai

During the ez
man did not try
and their custo
stand the white

Thus the unt
“urred. Stories
“ group of Am

Ma shi
& Pp. They

| OW for the C

Sentury, When
| . STAVE sites
: © burieg arti
ah end’ the
eeontie toc

Med to
Writer) lool

Sto .
Ne

