# OCR Result for IMG_4372 2023-10-17 12_45_02.HEIC

he cottage Mostly
family stil] docs
last run to Key
> In 1958.

Robert of Sydney,
ghters; June and

€ cottage in 1969,
summer with her
ir families.

ave four children:

streetsville. Gloria

ren are: Duncan,

casing.

R

coutah, Illinois.
of Key River 2
969. The Hanks
.. They have 1°
da (Schan?) °

Ken and Alice Jones of Capreol h

. aveaco
af “Captain Hook’s’® place, tlage northeast

KIVINEN e KEY HARBOUR

George Kivinen married Mildred Lahti
John and Edla Lahti of Sudbury, George a
son, Francis, own and operate Kingsway T
ois Neer ar

George helped his wife’s family, t j
overhauling boat engines used oS fae 4
breakdown occurred they would phone from the Harbour
to Key Junction, then a wire would be sent to George in
Sudbury. He and his tool kit would come down by train
io help out.

George and Mildred had two sons Russel (deceased) and
Francis.

Francis Kivinen married Lisa (Rosemarie) Walsh. They
have 2 children, Lisa and Mark. Francis and his family spend
many weekends and vacations at their cottage.

a daughter of
d his youngest
Transmission of

KOLESAR ¢ KEY HARBOUR

Charlie and Ann Kolesar from Chagrin Falls, Ohio first
visited Key Harbour in 1955 on vacation. By 1959 vacation
time, they both had strong feelings for the area and decided
to look around for a lot to build a cottage on which they
could use when Charlie’s retirement came up in 1965.

After checking places out they picked a spot on the south
side of the first large bay up river from the Harbour. Next
they found out they had to then contact the Department of
Lands & Forest at Parry Sound. They met with Mr. F.H.
Croswell, Director, who informed them the parcel of land
that they had picked was not available for purchase at that
time, but possibly would be in the near future. He also
advised that they keep in touch with him each month.
Charlie faithfully kept writing letters to Mr. Croswell every
month inquiring if the lot was available. At long last -
September 1964 they received a letter stating that ten Ee s
had been surveyed and would be for sale. Mr. coe : e
told them they had first ae os to a
correspondence and interest shown Dy them:

They rushed to the Harbour, obtained ee ae
Picked the Lot #6. It was paid for, Gee aged
received their deed to Lot #6 plan -*7- :

As soon as possible the Kolesars contract’ a Se
and only Edwin Aalto to build their new 3 : Ann, their
Edwin did an excellent job, assisted by Char i a ae
daughter, Carol and her husband Nc de of two
children. It was finished enough to veo

ae Key among
The Kolesars spend their summers at He ss Pat
family and Key Harbour friends. The ae eri
between Florida and Chagrin Falls, ae see aay
To all our readers: I know Chae FAG ah slide down
Would wish one and all his fondest wish: ae
the ‘Banister of Life’ may the splinters ney
ay the good Lord bless yOu always.

JAMES LONG e CRANBERRY KEY HARBOUR

: As told by Ernest & Margaret Long
ames and Margaret Long were fro
m Stratford, where
a worked for the CNR as an engineer for over 44 years.
Cl . Was a founding member of the ““Mishemokwa’’ Hunt
We of Stratford. The club members originally came to hunt
a each fall at Cranberry Lake Station Starting in 1927.
" ater years they came to Key Harbour. Here they built
e Hunt Camp known sometimes as Sam Ellis’ Camp,
sone iW Fee side of Key River back and to the side

ro udson’s cottage. The cottage is no d

Bob Lyte of MacTier. : ae
Jim Long liked the Harbour and built his cottage there
on the north side of the river in 1946, assisted by other

members of the Hunt Club. The lumber was purchased from
John Lahti.

In 1950 Ernest and Delbert Long built the cottage that Bob
Hunter bought in 1956.

Jim retired in 1957, and enjoyed seven years of Georgian
Bay summers at Key Harbour before he died in December
1964 at age 72.

Margaret Long continued coming to the cottage for a few
years, but eventually sold the cottage to Bud and Gloria
McQueen, in 1968.

Mrs. Long now resides in Stratford. The Long’s three
children are: Ernest of Stratford, Jean (Goodyear) and
Delbert of Los Angeles. The Long grandchildren have also
enjoyed vacations at the Harbour. Perhaps the Long’s great-
grandchildren will do the same.

WILLIAM NELSON COTTAGE e KEY HARBOUR
As told by Mrs. W.H. Brown

In 1950, Jim Long built a pre-cut, log-faced cottage for
William Nelson, ona lot west of Dan Trotter’s, on the south
side of Key River. Nelson was a Stratford Police sergeant.
Nelsons sold the lot and cottage to Henry Long in 1953.

HENRY LONG e LUDGATE KEY HARBOUR
As told by Mrs. J.H. Brown

Henry Long with his wife Eleanor and their daughters
Gwen, Lillian and son Bill vacationed each summer at Harris
Hurd’s Camp starting in the 1930's until they bought
William Nelson’s cottage in 1953. This lot was a leased lot

from the CNR. In the 1960’s they were able to purchase the

lot.

Henry was a payr
Toronto. He retired at
presented him with a 50
s vacationed at Ludgate Hurd’s camp
nearly all the same families arranged their holidays for the same

h year. One of these was Bob Hunter and his friends
ee ceeants Board of Education. Bob was a great
Het ue and put on Bingos, organized picnics, ballgames,
a iee of goodies for the children.

oll accountant for the CNR in
65 in February 1969. The company
year, ‘‘Gold Life Pass’’.

The years the Long.

121
