# OCR Result for IMG_4373 2023-10-17 12_45_02.HEIC

en,
m Long and Bud McQue
fhis lot. He added to the
Pukkila. The Longs cal-

Henry, with the help of Ji
built another cottage at the rear 0
original cottage, assisted by ee .
led their summer retreat *Taz-A- ong . 4

Henry died July 3, 1974, and his wife Eleanor August 9;

LOTS;

“RETREAT” ° KEY HARBOUR

e cottage goes back to the early years
r, when the CNR made a
for Frank Julian the sec-
he summer months.

he building a CNR
s wife

JESSIE LYTE’S

The background of th
of the Port of Key Harbou
bunkhouse car into living quarters
tion foreman and his family for t

After the Julians no longer used t
conductor, Charles O’ Leary, used it for vacations. Hi:
was Gladys Beuler, sister of Arthur Beuler. Gladys’ aged
mother, Mary Beuler, came for vacations to the cottage. She
was brought in the baggage car in a rocking chair accom-
panied by her huge St. Bernard dog.

The first person to buy the building from the CNR was
Mike Costello from Port Credit. Cos and Jessie Lyte bought
it from the Costellos and Dave Hudson purchased it from
them in 1950. Dave Hudson used it for a number of years,
then turned it over to his son Arnold.

At this time the lease lot came up for sale, and Arnold
purchased it. He then arranged a transfer deal with Cos Lyte
for his present lot further east, so Cos bought the cottage
back. Additions and improvements have been added over
the years.

Jessie Lyte, now retired, spends most of her summer in
her retreat at Key Harbour.

MORLOCK ¢ KEY HARBOUR

Donald Peter Morlock, known as ‘‘Pete’’, married Mary
Louise Pillgrem in 1945. They worked and lived in Hespeler
until 1952 when they moved to London, where Pete joined
the staff of the OPP.

While in Hespeler, Mary introduced Pete to the Key
Harbour area. He was hooked from the first visit, like us
all. Their first cottage in the area was built on one of the
Bustard Islands in 1952. The island, on the west side of the
Bustards, was purchased from the Department of Lands and
Forests by Mary’s brother, Bill. ee

After spending a few vacation years i '
realized thay they were too doen eee they
weather. Neither of them liked the rough w eel ihe
sometimes caused them to cut their holid fas ouch
be able to get out. ays short just to

These conditions prom

pted them ; :
Mace. citer Agnes Trott Beh ae their cabin to
the Bustards and building their present ie Hot cabin at
accommodations at the Highway ee they rented
were released for sale at the Harbour a nner lols
lot No. 1, plan M-235, They built the; 63 they purchased
of 1964 and have si clr Cottage in the sprj
since added to the bas; nthe spring

When they built in 1964, the Key R; Pols building,
lowest levels ever. The boats ioe Han Ne at One of its
ree uilding supplies

were stranded in more than one place on the river rane

them to jump 1h : ‘i
bars. Sometimes it was impossible to use a motor ay,

had to use poles for some distances.

Even with all the trials and tribulations they com
poeand M ary’s ‘Retreat’? in 1964 and would not pa
it at any price.

Pete retired in 1979 and they now spend, if possibje .
months at the Key. oo

A long time friend, Herb Elson, from OPP days §
London, has helped over the years with additions a
repairs. The Elsons lived in Sudbury for a number of years
and shared the Morlock’s cottage in the summer months

Sang

Herb has recently been transferred to Newcastle insouthe, |

Ontario, and will not likely be able to spend as much time
at the Key due to the long distance to travel.

WILLIAM “BILL”? MICHAUD ° KEY HARBOUR

Bill came to Key Harbour when quite young to live with |
his mother and step-father, Leo Michaud. Bill was raised |

in Key Harbour so can certainly be called a native son.
He started his painting career in 1939. Since that time he

has become one of Canada’s leading outdoor scenic artists.
Michaud’s paintings are displayed around the world. One |

is in the White House at Washington, and one is with Queen
Elizabeth. Bill enjoys international reputation as a restore
of fine arts. Dr. Booth was one of the persons that en-

couraged Bill to continue his painting at the start. The Hat

bour residents are proud of a native son with so much talent.

For a number of years Bill guided for his father, and other
camps and cottagers. He also acted as caretaker for Judee
Leroy Silbaugh’s camp on Maybee Point, when the fam!)
or guests were not there. He bought a new guide boat ant
guided out of Parry Sound for a time.

In 1942 Bill married Margaret Benbow in Toronto 4
they had two daughters, Margo and Monica, who now 1

W

\

in Ottawa. They were later divorced and Bill married Inet

a

(Ritzie.) They have three children; Elizabeth (MIs. Male
Schell), Toronto; Kathryn, and son Paul. Paul lives! Ke
Falls,

The Michaud family resides in Oshawa in the a
months. In 1974 they purchased Laz-a-Long cotta i
the south side of the river, at Key Harbour. Here Na ue
the summer months, Bill has a studio there, surtout
all the natural scenic beauty spots he paints S© well. ©
Joys his pet bears and coons that come t0 visit.

William Morton first visited the area in Mae :
ve Gladys (nee Dickson) came with her family il
rt a son Mark and daughter Sharon ha :

€y Harbour in 1959,
Toe the Mortons purchased Crow? lan p
y River and finished building theif CO" pe 8”

me family spends most of their summer

got
ot NO 94s
vay

8
into the water to push the boats off if iting

d they |

Pleteq
It With {

| OREV) MARTIN 5 BEX
pul tae Key Harbour in 1957
pill es in Bob Hunter’s cabin. The}
ofl pim- ie pought Lot 12, south side o

jn a >, ig Own modern cottage in 1S
and puilt added to the cottage and since
i Harbour Chapel) in 1970, nic

McKINNEY e KEY HARB
and Sharron E. McKinne

rines- They bought the Bemes’ c
ee 1979. They have a son, Sam

MARR ° KEY HARBO

William (Bill) Marr of Toronto has a
bay up-river next to Morlocks. Bill visit
in the summer.

MILKOVICH * KEY HARI

Mike Milkovich came for the first time
Harbour area in 1962. He stayed first at
purchased a lot in the early 50’s located
of the first bay up-river. He built his cott
by the family. Mike and his wife Barbar
Mike Jr., Daniel, Tom, Patrick, Kathe:
The family are from the Cleveland are

NEILSON e KEY HARB
f Arthur Neilson married Veronica (ne
ae in their marriage, Art had to wi
a Key Harbour unloading coal sh
a € Neilsons have two children: |
cies pects Martin, now of Sudb
Toronto. on Pete is a very good m

iP

the se ouee a lot at Key Harbour in
cott - He, his dad, and George M

age, = :
tae The Neilson family and relati
ummers there.

0
TTO © KEY HARBOUR, “PI

Mr,
ltbourc eee his brother, sta
“ther driv Ish in the late 40’s. In tho
lake Wai * to Britt or come by rail, the
then to oe S Boat Transfer service lat
te Picke Y Harbour Lodge. After 1952
Narbo : ‘P at Highway 69 and brot
After re q different resorts.
Vous: to Pees brother and fishing
tion UG, to { Tida, he asked his son, M
a oes him to Key Harbour !¢
hens Wack,
Teo ir ap entice’s and Vonnie’s first
p; Q 196 a:
eS tango Lyte told them that C
feces, and ight be for sale. They
PUrchace eter contacting Mr. Gre!
Sit February 25, 1965. At fir
