# OCR Result for IMG_4346 2023-10-17 12_44_06.HEIC

It is also de

Sirable

that the
Comp any shall
service from a . ee
voted Point, say sixty to Seventy miles North
of Toronto, to Toronto, SU¥ficientiv early in th
1 & morning and

at a convenient time in the atte
ate farmers

jiving in this district travelling to the city of Toronto and

gesiring to return to their homes the same day
The Company has not on its line of railway

al

1o a centre
of population from which trains can with economy be operated

to and from the City of Toronto. the Town of Orillia is conven.

iently situated for the jurpose. The line of railway was oriz—

inally routed throuch the Torm of Orillia but was diverted by
the Government to suit the convenienes of the residents on the
Rast side of Lake Couchiching.

At the last Session of the Ontario Legislature, legis—

laticn was passed empowering the Government to suarants2 the

Ws

bonds of the Company's line from a point on its main line to
Orillia. JI would, therefore, ask that at the present session
eset eect oee ~ <i 9 ee ie

of the Pominion Parliament there be passed legislation grant-

i ‘ sheidy towards the construc
ins to the Company the usual cash subsidy

tion of the following line of railway ;~-

a point on the main

j ay from
(d) ra Line 00 Te jenadian Northern Ontario Rail-
cay een yaney to the Town of Oriilia,—-a
We eA Sore

jatance not axceeding twelve (12) miles.

yours respe ctfully,

(sea) Vv. H. Moore

WL

secretary.

: wily: and ( Ur
Cou 1é. y of e 4 0 ways

rails. Public Archives Oulawa.

95

