# OCR Result for IMG_4404 2023-10-17 12_46_13.HEIC

THE COMMUNITY OF BRITT

Courtesy of the North Star (1945)
Compiled by E.F. Casey
Assisted by Mr. P.M. Scott, Dept. of Lands and Forests
Rev. H.E. Archambault
Messrs. Ernest and Wm. Bernier, and older residents of the
community.

The primeval wilderness on the shores of the Magnetawan
River here was first broken in 1866 when lumbering
operations began. According to the records of the Dept. of
Lands and Forests, a Mr. Gibson built a saw mill on Mill
Island about a mile below the present site of Britt in that
year. The foundation of this mill is still to be seen. The logs
sawn here were cut along the shores of the Magnetawan and
the township of Wallbridge shore on Georgian Bay. The first
crown timber licence issued from the Dept. of Lands and
Forests covered the season of 1869-70 and included an area
north of Wallbridge and south of Brown township and all
the townships of Wallbridge, Brown, McKenzie, and the

152

Centre of picture CPR coal docks. Village of Britt and Holy Fam ily Church, bottom

right, top centre the village of Byng Ine.

west half of Wilson, comprising 382 square miles in all. In
the season of 1880-81 this square mileage was reduced '0
118 and included the township of Wallbridge only. In 1869
W.E. Dodge bought the island mill and ran it until 187!
when he built a larger mill in Byng Inlet South. His name
Is still familiar to the older residents.

After the island mill was built some mill workers took UP
their residence on the north shore of the river opposite!
Blend to be near their work at the mill. Thes¢ first
inhabitants were for ihe most part of French descent as were
ess who followed in later years. Most of them 1"
orginated in the neighbourhood of Three Rivets:
where they had been engaged in the lumbering indust
when the mills Closed there, they emigrated 10
centres such as this where the industry was in its pone a
small Village which grew up here became known 48 uth

sean orth, to distinguish it from its neighbour 0?

“

ry, DU
ntatlo

the 5

