# OCR Result for IMG_4311 2023-10-17 12_42_44.HEIC

1920.

istler’s Bay, :
yee { nee Mackecknie)

(As told by Mrs. Gladys Har

ad hunting camp was

built in the late 1920’s at the north end and west side of
Whistler’s Bay by Hugh Playfair Mackecknie of Toronto.

They first erected a small cabin back some distance from
the point on their property. Later Mackecknie hired some
local Indians to build a log cabin on this point close to the
water’s edge. Periods of high water forced it to be moved
further back on a higher rock, where it Is situated today.
Konsta Pukkila, local carpenter, took the cabin apart log-
by-log to move and rebuild it.

About this same time they had several sleeping cabins
constructed on the property for guests and friends. One of
these friends that visited them was Dr. John Downer and
family of Toronto. The Downers later built their own
cottages close by.

Charlie Moore, a close neighbour and carpenter helped
the Mackecknies with many repairs and chores. He also
guided for Hugh Mackecknie’s fall hunting parties.

The Mackecknies came to their camp in the usual manner
in the thirties and forties. From Toronto to Ludgate by
CNR, where they stored their boat at Hurd Brother’s Camp
over the winter months. From Ludgate they came by boat
down the Key River to their camp. Their other way was to
come CNR to Key Junction then by Jitney to Key Harbour
and from there by boat to their camp. The family and friends
used the camp a great deal for fishing, and for hunting in
the fall.

While the Mackecknies were in camp one summer in the
1940’s, the point to the northwest of Camp Playfair caught
fire, and the area was burned over badly. The fire was
started as so many are in the area, even today, by careless
campers having a shore lunch and not making sure their

campfire was extinguished. Mrs. Hart recalls what a frightful

Deer fawn at
Camp Playfair.

tness, the fleeing of animals and

: to wi :
experience the fire was Sea gia fed the entire area

irds, and how quickly the
eee from one point to anc ti
Hugh Mackecknie was married ee ee
his second wife Gladys (nee White). a ae
After his death the camp was sold in 195 to co me
of Buffalo. Mrs. Mackecknie later married Robert H. Hart,

The Harts live in Windsor.

RED DOT CAMP

After Red Wimmer bought Camp Playfair, his group

named it “Red Dot Camp”’, and it has been known by local

residents as such for years.
In 1962 Red Wimmer sold his camp to Wes and Stan

Finch, and John Lowrey of Marilla, New York, who now
own and use the camp frequently.

Hugh Playfair
Mackecknie.

Local guides for

Mackecknie. Left
to right, Charlie

Moore and local
Indian guide.

Photos
courtesy of
Mrs. Gladys Hart

