# OCR Result for IMG_4290 2023-10-17 12_41_52.HEIC

eon oe - as Postmistress
The eldest of the children, May, took over as 16 in
of French River Village Post Office when she was 1906
late 1901. She managed it until she married at age 2] in ‘
Her mother, Emma Borron, took over from her dave <
it seems she ran the Post Office until 1913 or 1914.
May married Moses View who came into French R
Mouth to inspect logs for one of the sawmills located a
They then moved to Sault Ste. Marie where they owned ae
operated a store. Later they moved to the United States.

In early 1977, Dr. Randolph Borron with his wile
Margaret visited his oldest and ailing sister, May, 11
California. She passed away shortly after in March, 1977
at age 92.

Arthur came to Toronto and worked all of his life for
Toronto Hydro and died suddenly in the late 1940's.

Edward moved to Toronto and worked there. While in
Toronto he developed tuberculosis and he returned to
French River Village where he died at the very young age
of 34 years. He was never married.

Hilda died in her early 50’s. Odessa, a clever pianist,
contracted scarlet fever when 16. With a high temperature,
she suffered irreparable brain damage and died in her early
40’s.

Randolph William Joseph Borron, (the youngest), left his
home at French River Mouth alone in 1915, to go to Toronto
to get his grade VIII entrance papers at St. Patrick’s School
on McCall Street. He roomed on Bond Street and cooked
his own meals. After graduating he returned home to French
River Village for another year or so. Shortly thereafter the
family moved to Toronto in 1918. Randolph William Joseph
Borron continued his education and became a doctor and
prominent radiologist in Toronto.

Dr. Borron was married twice. There were three girls and
one boy by his first marriage: Patricia, Dianna, William and
‘Star Marie. In 1951, he married Margaret (nee Coffey). There
were three daughters by this marriage: Eileen, Mary Lou,
and Monika adopted in 1959.

He always returned to the French River, Bustard Island
area to fish each spring and hunt in the fall until recent years.
The Borrons were close lifelong friends of the McIntosh
family.

Dr. Borron passed away suddenly with a heart attack May
24th 1977. Surviving are his wife Margaret, and a family
of six girls and one boy.

Dr. Borron’s mother, Emma, died suddenly of a heart
attack at her son’s home in Toronto on April 26, 1953
age 87.

iver

at

MOUNTNAYS, LIGHTKEEPERS

Mr. and Mrs. David Mountnay
island when navigation season started in Apri

ship ‘‘Grenville’’, the Department-of Traneporeane ae

Grenville would call at the Bustard Rocks with a a a

regular intervals and pick them up late in the fall e = e

years Mountnay raised a fine garden and kept greece

The following notes are from Canadj
: adian
Transport files, Parry Sound. ren a

“David Mountnay’s Starting salary
40

would be brought to the

in 1919 for the eight

February llth, 1885. He
World War 1 with the 4
M.M. Medal of Gallantry.

Pansy M
and had
later in 1923
they returned to
Job as lighthouse

Sound, brought
Supplies periodic

lights at the B
be able to retir
dwelling to in
Mstalled, he co

h navigation season was $660.00, 1920 — $690.00, 19)
month na

caching
aoe month payment for hand Sh) Foghorn,
AMEN hos

“115th, 1925, he came under a new classification wi
On April 15t; 1,020.00, which was a respectable sala,
a maximum OF ree house supplied. The keepers job Wa,
fF ae oa lonesome isolated Sete
an eight mo! David Mountnay retired he had becom,
S Find. Hi wife maintained the lighthouse for him
mos yee

qa maximum $

al

THOMAS WILLIAM FLYNN
BUSTARD ROCKS LIGHTHOUSE KEEPER
Thomas William Flynn was born near Bracebridge on
served overseas for four years ill
6th Battalion and was awarded the
When Tom returned to Canada after the war, he married
ae Richmond of Parry Sound. They moved weil
a farm in Mazenod, Saskatchewan. A few yeals
» due to Mrs. Flynn’s poor health at the time
Parry Sound. In 1928, Tom took on ti

keeper at Bustard Rocks.
Om the Department of Transport, Patt
ae Flynns needed light and person
Th : y Over the season.

. Tollowing 1S taken in part from an article in the Nort

ck McK artineli
we : Parry Sound, 1965. le

fan and his Staff wer
UStard Rocks
€. After leavin
Struct him on
uldh

Supply boats fr

€ installing the new automall
in 1950, to help Tom Flynt ©
& the lighthouse to go to Tom
ear | the care of the new appara”

"“aughter as he approached. Tom ™

as

alary of $750.00 in 199)

entertaining George Joh

coffee break with his m

jovial way. One of the s

when he was down in tl

her mother, in a zoo, wh
in his cage. *‘T’ll tell you

at Bustard Rocks and I]

down in a cage.”’ Anyon«
that Tom did not have |
There have been prob]
on the Bay, but none like
his supervisors told him
and light the lighthouse
only way to go was up |
Tom expected to have
you ‘‘couldn’t drive a sc
whip,’’ over ridges like ‘
armpits.’ Tom was sa’
MelIntosh who picked hi
his snowplane and deli
Bustard Rocks. Be that <
the Bustards in 1930.

Over the years the Flynn
garden and flower beds (ei
other islands. This soil
produced magnificent pla
carrots, Onions and some

Tom would bring chick
for fresh eggs and fresh pi
killed off before he left 1

For many years he hac
called ‘‘Spot’’ and later c
go everywhere with Tom.
Author’s note: From diff
talked that knew Tom Fh
been a very sociable, frie!
and was thought well of |
one fear, he was terrified
Tom Flynn’s favourite sa

(Everybody that knew T
sayings of his)

“Holy Jumping Nellie’

“The Hootnanny off t!

“Wouldn’t that make
eyelashes”’

We are sure that if Tc
shoulder at these lines, he
be pleased.

The Flynns became we
commercial fishermen wou
Wanda Godin, a daughte
Sound, recalls, as a child liv
character Tom Flynn was.
the Flynns and while there,
fresh eggs.

After Bob Young retir
maintenance of the battery
Mouth. Whenever he had 1

