# OCR Result for IMG_4413 2023-10-18 18_56_07.HEIC

is

TERR Atos bo EAS BRN BA mae)

(Graves Bigwood continued. )

In the years that the Graves Bigwood Lumber Mill
operated, Byng Inlet town was a thriving place. There was
a hotel a employed 35 people, three churches
(Presbyterian, Anglican, Roman Catholic), a school,
CPR station, a Jail, dance hall, bakery and much more.
There was a theatre where silent Movies were shown to pro-
vide entertainment for the town residents.

With the many horses required, there was
stable and a stage coach to transport passenger
the railway station three miles to the east.

In the downtown section of town, there was a large
General Store that employed eight people and sold a wide
variety of goods from groceries to gasoline. This company
store dealt mostly in voucher trade. Graves Bigwood gave
to their employees, instead of cash paychecks, vouchers,
which the employees traded for their food, clothing and
other requirements.

To the west of slip 1, on an island, there was a hospital
with one doctor. On Front Street a large water tank was
located where everyone obtained water for their homes.

Timber supply on the mill’s property ran out and the mill
closed down in 1927. In 1928 it was torn down. After the
mill was closed, a few people remained and found other
types of employment but the majority moved to other places
to obtain work. Some moved to the U.S. to work in similar
mills. Those that moved and owned their property sold their
houses for $65.00 and their land sold for $25.00 per lot.
Those who rented and stayed on were able to purchase the
house and lot later.

also a livery
sto and from

ee

: we ee Bie Inlet hotel

The Building of Texaco Oil Docks
Told by the late Hector Lamore

With a ten man crew, Hector Lamore helped to build the
docks for the Regent Oil Company from start to finish in
1952. The docks are of wood pilings and timbers, driven
into the bottom of the inlet on Byng Inlet side. Located
directly in front of the Lamore home are the Texaco Oil
Docks.

Water depth at the east end of the docks is 22’, 24’ at
the front docking side. The docks were opened for the first
tanker to call on October 5, 1952.

The gasoline is pumped through a pipeline, a half mile
back of the docks to six storage tanks. From these tanks,
gas is trucked to district retail suppliers by tank trucks.

The Regent Oil Company used the facility for only two
and a half years and then sold out to Texaco.

Hector Lamore died Dec. 22, 1980.

}

Le

and staff.

