# OCR Result for IMG_4341 2023-10-17 12_43_51.HEIC

pemeneUES

Line.

I started work for the Canadian National Railway
Company in 1925. In 1929 I became a crane engineer and
came to Key Harbour to unload coal from the lake freighters
in the summer months.

Brown coaling hoists were used. They were coal-burning,
steam-powered hoists, using a two-yard cup clam. These
hoists ran and operated on a raised track that was six feet
higher on the outside, or ship side, of the dock and lifted
coal from the hold of the ships, over the track to the coal
cars located on the lower or inside tracks. When a strong
north wind was blowing, the hoist operators had a very dirty,
unpleasant job. As they swung and released the bucket of
coal, all the dust would blow into their cab.

Three hoists were used to unload each ship, one-at-a-time,
as there were only three Brown hoists and no spares.
Maintenance of these hoists was very important to keep the
port running smoothly. When other ships were in port
waiting to be unloaded, they would anchor close to the
southwest of the docks. We worked 12-hour shifts for 24
hours while unloading a ship.

Most ships carried approximately 7,000 tons of coal and
it would take approximately 42 to 48 hours to empty.

Hoist operators became very efficient and skilled with
their long booms and clam buckets. With the help of the

clean-up or signal men who were the hoist engineers’ eyes,
operators could swing and drop the buckets into a hold with
directions from signal men, and just about Sweep it clean
with the clam. Signal men were stationed on deck or in the
hold to direct the clam operators wit
Mo in the hold would scrape loose coal into piles for the
went over the sides into the : aa es a eel coal
ae as water. Some of this coal is still
cing retrieved and used,
Wages were 67¢ per hour for
Firemen earned 52¢ per hour. §
made 30-40¢ per hour.

90

h only inches to spare.

a trained hoist engineer,
ignal men and labourers

Key Harbour Coal Dock, 1929-1938

By Arthur Neilson

Coal ship S.B. Way, self-unloader, Valley Camp Steamship

t
stot employees
and maintained al
Frank Julian and h
tion and track mi
Harbour.

Ernie West was ¢
early years. He wo
the summer. Their |
by Mrs. Hazzard f

Crane operators 2
work-crew cars par]
were fed in what lat
of Crawley, McCri

erhouse, right.

Coal dock, pow

SHIPS '

The docks and H:
run into the docks f
and water depths f
dockside. This mean
depth for boats tha

Brown coaling hoist unloading a ship.

ES

and Arnold Hudson.

