# OCR Result for IMG_4406 2023-10-17 12_46_14.HEIC

(Britt continued) on
was agitation for a school in :
are jae Mr. Potvin wrote a letter to aes
Geo. Grant which read in part: ‘“We residen ca glen batt
North feel the need of a school in our village, a Bc the Aver
of the time it is impossible for our eitcre to ae SPs
and at all times more or less dangerous. The fo) : Sree he.
letter is to ask for the government grant given to domed for
2 in this section as the village there has been aban ae ao
the past 3 years. Our village has sprung UP eve tue

abandonment of the lower village. Our object is to ha ne

school section no. 2 and the grant transferred to on a

Often maps, etc. have been sent to School no. 2 since ¢ an
but School no. 1 reaps the benefit. We have over forty Be :
of school age, we will build the school at Once on i p

of a favourable reply.’’ The inspector gave his permission
and a grant of $50.00 was given for the building of a new
school, and another $50.00 grant was given for six months
teaching. In an old document the boundaries of the new
school section were set forth as follows: ‘‘In concession XIV,
lots numbered 49, situated on the north side of the
Magnetawan River, taking one mile north and one mile east
and west.’’ It was signed by Rev. Geo. Grant and magistrate

McCurry, dated at Byng Inlet North, Sept. 7, 1886.

The new school was built high on the rocks, overlooking
the Magnetawan. It opened in the fall of 1886. Among the
first to attend this school were Mrs. James O’Toole, and
Mr. Sam Charrette.

This school operated until 1891. On a windy day early
in the spring of that year, a fire started on the roof of
Burton’s mill. The flames soon got out of control and the
entire village including the school was wiped out. For the

remainder of that term school was taught in the office of
the lower mill.

ust
y village. In Aug
the nev pector, Rev.

f Byng Inlet

As the mill was not to be rebuilt on the north shore a few
families moved to other centers. The building of a new
school was neglected and from September 1891 to September
1900, the north shore children once again crossed the river
to attend S.S. 1 Wallbridge. However school attendance laws
were not strictly enforced and many children did not attend
school at all during these years. In 1899 Mr, C.B. Gegin took
over the business of Mr. Potvin. He ran this store many
years. His family carried on the business. Mr. Begin had
the privilege of being one of the oldest residents of Britt for
years. He and the parish priest at the time, Father Hamel,
became the driving forces in the building of a new schoo]
for which there was a pressing need.

At this time a petition was
enlargement of the section to make it two and one half miles
east and west instead of one mile each way, because of the
extent of land obstructed by water and rocks in the section
This petition was signed by Chas, Bernier, J Oseph Fraser F.
Charlebois, Jos, Belanger, James McFarling, Cyrac Berg :
Cleophus Pelletier, Honore Belland, Hormisdos Ambea
Pierre Ambeau, Chas. Legros, role aan real
Trudeau. This was directed to t , the Rey, Geo.

circulated asking for the

Honore Lac
he inspector

Grant, who granted the petition,
154

ild the new schoo]
s elected to bui ‘Tey on
ven ad in 1891. Mr. Begin financed the initial ¢ of th
ee being later paid back by the + :
ens of the school from 1900 to 19] rive ie © Wag

AXPayerg ; Iting

taken a keen interest in school affairs, The ney sch?
two story frame structure ean ae September, 1909, It h ;
an attendance of 60 pupils. The first teacher Was Mig Min ad
Cavanaugh of Barrie, who was paid $275 a ye Nie
there was an attendance of 75 Pupils, nece
engaging of a junior teacher who taught in th
of the school. With a decrease in attendance it
to a one room school the following year.

In June 1908 the CPR was opened from Parry Soung i
Sudbury, passing within a mile of Byng Inlet North, 4 smal
station was built just south of the present one and nameq
Dunlop in honour of Mr. A.N. Dunlop Who at that time
was resident engineer. In 1910, mineteen years after the
mill had burned, this community saw the dawn of anew day
In that year the CPR taking advantage of the goog
navigation on the Magnetawan built a huge coal dock at the
confluence of the Still and Magnetawan, where the river jg
widest. Here boats up to 7000 tons burthen Carrying coal
up the lakes mainly from Pennsylvania unloaded. From here
it was distributed throughout the north for Tailway use and
for use in mines and pulp and paper mills. AS much a5
500,000 tons of coal were handled here in a Year,

At first some of the dock employees were Outsiders
accommodated in CPR boarding houses but now all of the
seventy regular employees are Prosperous home owners
forming the main population of the village today.

Since 1910 the village has grown rapidly, contrasted with
Byng Inlet South which, with the Passing of the lumbering
era, has steadily declined. In 1927 a post office was Opened
here. Although at this time the village was commonly known
as Dunlop, a new name had to be found, there already being
a Dunlop in Huron County, Ontario. The naming was left
to CPR officials who named it Britt, in honour of Thomas
Britt who at that time was general fuel superintendent of
CPR eastern lines.

When the dock was opened in the spring of 1911, the
People began to move from the Village and make their homes
along the Still River to be near their work at the dock.
During the winter of 1914 the school was moved to the
Present site of the Church of the Holy Family. Here it was
more centrally located. With an increase in attendance an
assistant teacher was hired once again in January 1915.

Th 1925 a horse drawn bus was contracted to convey ue

: ae ae a Henvey township to the school. SU

ofp ve In 1942 to convey the children from the s a

Ge aénetawan. In October 1944, Mr. Alfred Am a
S the contract for conveying pupils from Het

Purchased a new Te : feasure
ul o the p
of the children, Swlation school bus, much t

Since the ¢
Paralleled that
Of great assist
and have tak

Ssitating the
€ Upper story
Teverteq back

as
arly days, the growth of the church M

Of the school. The pastors have always Ce
ance to the school board and teachers 3
€n an interest in the scholastic welfare of
(continued on pase

‘ ec.
it i948 tourist
gs far north -
ended. Wrigh Le
came by train al

There were tw

one leaving 7:00

round trip ticket
| per person to Cz
| tied freight and s
It was most con

In 1950 Georg
vice to go back t
they used the ‘<S
taxi service,

By 1952 highy
acess by boat
Tansfer busines
discontinued.
ee egnry
the meee the
dy fae In 197.
| Ock at Eq,

Harbo

Ur, then

|
4
|
|
}

WRIGHT S Ce

The Wriehts

Cars
0

| fines 00 ang

| ten th gi
0 “Stard ye,
Ma aso, Ces

S
Goo? Bai

