# OCR Result for IMG_4371 2023-10-17 12_45_01.HEIC

HARBOUR
from Toronto.
his prother-in-law:

CONNOR ° KEY
Connor came
s with

Al first
Alan and Nancy Ron
visited the Key in the 1960

Donnelly.
In 1974 they pought a lot back of the power

Jessie Lyte, and puilt their cottage in 1975.
Alanis a building contractor locally and -
Nancy is a nurse at Britt and Parry Sound.

house, from

Parry Sound.

DRAISEY ° KEY HARBOUR

Bud and Lorna Draisey came to the Key Harbour area
in 1954 and stayed at MacLeod’s Camp. They bought a jot
back of the old dock in 1964 and built their present cottage.
They have two daughters, Sherry and Wendy, both married.

DEAL e KEY HARBOUR
Martha Deal owns a cottage next to Menards, Key Harbour.

DONNELLY ¢ KEY HARBOUR

In 1954 Ron Donnelly and some friends came up the newly
opened #69 Highway looking for the French River and
stayed at Hurd’s. Later after fishing at the Harbour they
stayed at Key Harbour Lodge.

Ron bought his lot on the river in 1966. He and his father
John with Edwin Aalto’s help, built their cottage in 1967.

Ron and his wife Ann (nee Connor) were originally from
Toronto. They now have a home at Bayfield Warf. Ron and
Ann have one son, Jimmie.

DR. LIM DONG ¢ KEY HARBOUR
(As told by Charlie Kolesar)

Dr. Dong practices as an Optomologist in
In 1964 their good friend, Charlie Kolesar, teas t
the doctor that they buy one of the lots still available :
Big Bay near the Kolesars, which they did oe
In 1965 at the Homes and Garden
Ohio. Dr. Dong ordered a precut Vidor Cae : ae
arrangements for their staff to erect it on th 5 aes
quired lot at the Key. =
Said cottage was soon delivered to Cam
Kolesar took over the supervising job of the pro; :
ae Arvid Lahti with his fishing boat to nals = : a
ee oe to the lot. After atrangements we oe
roy s construction men to come, it took t ee Gs
days for them to finish construction afi a ae
The Doctor has since added to i Eee arrival,
1974 with Edwin Aalto doing the a) structure, In
was made on the front to accommod ction an addition
‘The entire Dong family thorou A ate Visiting friends
visiting a number of times each Ey their cotta
the-wool fishermen from dayfj Year. They are real dyed a
fish, ylight until dark. The os
Y love to

newly ac-

P Dore. Charlie

the Orig
constru:

120

In the summertime while at their cottage the Doc,
don many times to remove imbedded fish

n calle :
aad to look at other minor ailments. How well | ky

he came and rendered assistance and helpful advice w,
I broke three rib

Lui)
live in Willoughby Hills, Ohio.
GOURLIE ¢ KEY HARBOUR

Robert (Bob)

a buddy Morville :
Jate 1930’s. They stayed at MacLeod’s Camp on their firy

fishing trips.
In 1956, Robert

He erected a cottage there.

‘After Robert retired in 1962, they used the cottage mostly }

sn the summer and fall months, and the family still does

Bob with two other friends made the last run to Key |

Junction for mail with the Jitney service in 1958.

Mr. and Mrs. Gourlie had four children; Robert of Sydney, |}
B.C., Ernie of Seattle, Washington, daughters; June and |

Gloria.

Bob Gourlie passed away suddenly at the cottage in 1969.
Mrs. Gourlie still visits the cottage each summer with he |

two daughters, June and Gloria and their families.

June married William McDonald, they have four children:
Shelly Robert, Heather and Erin living in Streetsville. Glomt
married Buck Buchanan and their children are: Duncat |

David and Leslie all residents of Kapuskasing.

HANKS ¢ KEY HARBOUR

Vearl and Ruth Hanks are from Mascoutah, Tinos. |
of Key Rive”
1967. Edwin Aalto built their cottage in 1969. The Hanis

soe © j ,
visit their cottage each summer on vacation. They i }
Brenda (Schan) "

They bought lot No. 10 on the south side

children, John in California and
Mascoutah.

HAYNAMS AND BARTOLETS ° KEY our

Mr. and Mrs. Claire Haynam of Canton
to the area in 1953, and stayed at Roy Deals
Camp. They spent a number of vacation years | ae

In 1965, the Haynams with their daughter and so”
Ken Bartolet also of Canton Ohio purchas¢ :

Georgia” BH

cottage from Adolph Henelika at the Harboul- sf pal: t

ane Bartolets have one daughter Jean and i
€ family spend their vacations at their cottage ®

HOLMAN ¢ KEY HARBOUR

oo Holman of Wayne, Ohio, bought Jud Po

Tone the Key Harbour school

and his eae .
summer. nis family visited the Key 4 num

Hol :
(oe Man sold his cottage to Mike Douglas 0

of ri

)
Pau
of?

Tha |
hooks }
OW, a 4
sin 1970, said Bill Campbell. He is ai
accommodating man and a swell person. Lim and Sue Di |

Gourlie worked for the CNR and he ang |
Grieves, first came to the Harbour inth |

purchased or leased a lot on the point |
south side of the river mouth, across from the old docks, |

li
¢ rst ol i
Ohio, fs"

building" sc” |

lice Jones of Capreol ha\
“Cap

KIVINEN ° KEY HAR
Kivinen married Mildred
or Edla Lahti of Sudbury. Ge
(oi ncis, OW? and operate Kings
a 3

ae ily, th
Jped his wife’s family,

eee e Boal engines used for I
occurred they would phe

ce , then a wire would

Junction
Caan: He and his tool kit would

to help out.
George an

Francis.
Francis Kivinen married Lisa (Ro:

have 2 children, Lisa and Mark. Franc
many weekends and vacations at th

d Mildred had two sons

KOLESAR ¢ KEY HA

Charlie and Ann Kolesar from Cl
visited Key Harbour in 1955 on vaca
time, they both had strong feelings f
tolook around for a lot to build a
could use when Charlie’s retiremen
ee eke places out they pic’
they fond first large bay up river fr
Clea c out they had to then con
Ct ae at Parry Sound. T!
that the . irector, who informed t
time, me ad picked was not availal
adViseq ee would be in th
Charlie ¢ ‘at they keep in touch |
; athfully kept writing letter

Septem ee if the lot was av:
en su 964 they received a lette

told ee and would be for
“Otreg they had first cha
ee ae interest show!
© Lot ue the Harbour, ¢
so It was paid for, r
ee ced to Lot #6 plan
eee the Kolesars.

did an nN Aalto to build the!
€Xcellent job, assiste:
ten. 7, Ol and her husbandt
Was finished enough

hey ry

Ol
y epee Spend their summ
onde Harbour friends.
ula Our ae and Chagrin Falls

M7 on faders: I know Cha
r ce and all his fondest v
Ife’ may the splint
Ord bless you alw
