# OCR Result for IMG_4274 2023-10-17 12_41_26.HEIC

The Second Expedition

During our second expedition in 1975 we spent two days
camped close by the site of one of the larger hotels. This
one was located on a ridge south-east of the lighthouse. Our
campsite was on solid rock, for there is little or no soil in
this part of the village. During our excursions this trip we
located the sites of many houses, the Presbyterian church
the Catholic church, close by which was the school. Also
located Udey’s house, Mrs. Udey being the last postmistress.
We found too the remains of the vast loading areas where
cut and piled lumber was stored prior to shipment by boat.
These remains provided us with our heating needs for cook-
ing. Among the artifacts we brought back this trip were
many square nails, some rusty cutlery, pieces of coloured

glass, being remnants of bottles broken on the rocks and
a ‘sad iron rest’.

In the early 1960’s the Ontario Governmen
Dalles Falls Rapids, down to what it is today. This was done

Having come to the site by canoe we were able to to control the water level on the upper French and Pickerel
leisurely travel all the Macdougal Bay shoreline and both Rivers.

sides of the river from the Dalles Falls to the mouth. We
took pictures, one in particular of the village site from the
opposite shore.

This was for comparison purposes so we located ourselves
in exactly the same spot from which a similar photograph
had been taken some eighty years earlier. We used the light-
house as our ‘anchor point’ since it is the only structure still
standing today which permits the locating of all other long-
gone buildings. On this trip we took measurements of all
the building foundations we had located to date. It must
be remembered that most of the buildings were found with
the help of the numerous photos we have collected of the
village. Without these it would have been extremely dif-
ficult to locate many of the foundations due to the dense

LGR RRL : Tug ‘John McMartin” running Dalles Rapids. Courtesy
(Continued on Georgian Bay Camp page 51) pobert McIntosh.

Tug John McMartin

In the mid 1930's Reg and Benny McIntosh drove the
85’ steam tug (John McMartin) down through the Dalles
Rapids to Macdougal Bay without serious mishap. The tug
received a few cracks and small repairable holes. This was
quite a feat of daring in itself.

The tug had previously been used up the Pickerel River
at Pine Lake for hauling log rafts. After the demise of the
lumbering era the tug which was still in good shape, was
useless where it was located as the owner Mrs. McMartin
could not sell it when located up-river. It would have to be
brought down to Georgian Bay where it then could be
possibly sold.

Reg and Benny waited till there was a strong west wind
which raised the water level below the Dalles Rapids. They
also planned the run with the spring release of the dams
upstream, to increase the flow above the rapids. This was
years before the blowing of the Dalles Rapids and low-
ering of the water flow. Reg and Benny tested the river
currents and flow, with small logs to help them to plan and
navigate the rocks in the rapids.

ZF The Pine Lake, Pickerel River log raft tug “* John McMartin” starting
her compe 110 its run through the Dalles Rapids in high water in the 1930's.

ve (he
nd Edw!

w,
ny?

