# OCR Result for IMG_4307 2023-10-17 12_42_33.HEIC

Maybee’s Point ¢ Dokis Channel,

1923-1930

Maybee Lodge, late 1920's.
(As told by Allen Silbaugh, Bob Hunter and Bud McQueen)
Maybee’s Point is situated on the mainland north shore
approximately halfway between the mouth of Sand Bay and
the mouth of the east branch of the French River (or Pickerel
River Mouth, as it is known locally) at the north end of

Dokis Channel.

Dr. William Joseph Maybee, an affable and friendly
gynecologist from Toronto, applied to purchase this point
and extra land around the bay, which consisted of five acres.
This tract of land was owned by the Crown and administered
by the Ontario Department of Lands and Forests.

The Parry Sound Registry Office shows that Dr. Maybee
purchased the land October 3, 1923, and received a patent
title dated November 27, 1923. The Doctor first hired
Charlie Moore, a local resident, who lived in his cottage close
by on the west side of Dokis Channel, to be his camp
carpenter and maintenance handyman. Charlie soon erected
a lodge, two cottages and an icehouse. Around 1926 he built
six bunkhouses for the camp guests. These were located on
the west or cliff side of the point. Other cottages were built
over a ten year span. One cabin was built on the Bustard
Islands, but was brought back to Maybee Point, intact on
a boat, when they found it was not being used.

In the period 1923-1930, Dr. Maybee ran advertisements
in prominent Canadian and U.S. papers expounding the
many aspects of his camp for those hardy fishermen wanting
scenic landscapes with excellent wilderness fishing. The
advertisements would also stress the fact that his camp was
off the beaten track, had good food and accommodations and
the best local Indian Guides available. In the advertisement
the Doctor mentioned the social activities available at the
Lodges’ ‘Bull Ring’? and ‘‘Dinty Moore’s Bar.’’ (This
aspect would certainly be of interest to prospective guests
in those prohibition years.) With this promotion Dr. Maybee
Soe ae and prominent personalities visiting his
sitbaugh ue nacune over the years were Judge Leroy
Spicer, a well know : a une ee Chey
Se oe can ve cue famous banjo player from
ae aa - ounder of one of Canada’s largest
from the U.S. w cis, of Toronto. Other guests of note

“». Were pianist Harry Reader; and Wilber

Marlett, a violini i
2 lolinist, who played with the Boston

Relaxing at camp. Left to right, Charles Haunstien, L.G.
Silbaugh, Hal Clelland, Harry Spicer.

Philharmonic Orchestra. All these and many more came {0
Maybee’s Camp to relax, fish and enjoy themselves in a tril
wilderness setting.

These talented guests would amuse themselves ani
entertain other guests with music and song, in the Lodge!
Bull Ring and Dinty Moore’s Bar, where they would plal
Dr. Maybee’s piano and other instruments. There were rules:
They could discuss anything except religion or politics.
Author’s note: At this point, I would like to mention that will
I was rummaging through the ruins and ashes in 1970, whet
the lodge once stood, I found the strings and rusted parts
Dr. Maybee’s piano that they used in those memorable atl
happy days of the Bull Ring.

Dr. Maybee hired Bob Hunter of Toronto to act a i)
part-time manager, secretary and treasurer from the till
that he first opened his camp until his death. Bob worke!
for the Board of Education in Toronto and spent his summe
holidays at Maybee’s Point taking care of the camp: oth
close friends of Bob’s such as Jack Fee and Charles 11
would help out with camp chores while visiting.

Dr. Maybee was an orphan, and this backeround is lik!
the reason why he helped so many people, and had s0 mal
friends around him. Many of his close friends, like Bob Hutt
and family, were from the Toronto Beare of Educatll!
Most of these people had a hard time in those depress
years to make a living. He would treat them 10 @ if
vacation at Maybee’s Camp each year. ;

In prohibition years doctors were able to obl@l
generous supply of alcohol for ‘‘medicinal purposes:
beverages, available at camp to his close friends, SOM
were free, other days the guests would pay for thet

friends like Jac
Quinn, would
appreciation 0

Dr. Maybee
bush from Pic!
to his camp. F
arriving.

In the early
to camp by w
employed som
his guests. Ch
not only a gui
the camp. He
uncanny how
three days ina

Other Indiz
north end of
families woul
was out guidi
guide for the «
had a nephew
a well known
Bekanon Hen

In the 1920
point had a1
snowshoe rab
paradise.

The fishing
of course wor
small and larg
were in appro
are today, acc
would like to
the lake trou
were most ple
about ten mi
made arrange
with them w

Bank. This g
trout while tl
his guests wh
to and from
the instrume

Doctor May.
