# OCR Result for IMG_4360 2023-10-17 12_44_36.HEIC

Atay
"icteg
th Ming aus,
 Barbo i, She
=

|
il
a eh

Hi0s

|

Hi Veal
Kay. loth
LY ie

le fal
y, born 1908, |

t trip to Key
924 he began

 Freg Tang
SSS _ J

’ 1 ed
oF aroul

Wyte
jon the

hat

} varid

ot
=

|,cof this division. In the interim years fro

Hida

isle, they bought it.

iw coa

>

Were

, TROTTER * KEY Wa
Dee told by D.M. Trotte, OUR

prottet first came to Key Harbo
r

: Ur in t
jy yc a young civil engineer he
nh, fh x

Was
givision Of the CNR to take soy

id the Harbour docks. One of the
© arbour With 5,000 tons of coal
oo bottom near the dock, This w
8 showing the soundings were inac
evel fluctuated as much then
BGne would have been relj
(o month.
e time Trotter reached the Harbour the ship had
“self — likely due to a strong west wind. Mr. otic:
»soundings and showed them on

a Harbour plan.
imum depth of water along the dock Was 19 feet.
98 Trotter was transferred from Capreol and Worked

s locations. In 1948 he was transferred back to
as Superintendent. Key Harbour and its spur was
m 1928-1948
ers had spent some of their holidays with the
ysat Key Harbour. They fell in love with the place
en he was transferred back to Capreol in 1948, they
air present cottage on leased land from the CNR
‘the river from the McKays. When the land came up

Sent fro

: M the
Ndings

\

Curate. No doubt
as it does how

able from year to year

Ss)

S

W

| There was no railway traffic moving on the seven mile

line from Key Junction to the Harbour in 1948, The
came into the harbour near the end of World War
acks had been allowed to deteriorate for a number

S,

ate 40's and 50’s large quantities of whitefish were
ght by the local commercial fishermen in the
The Gauthier Jitney service hauled boxes of fresh
ey Junction where Jack MacLeod saw to it that the
oaded into refrigerated cars. These cars went by

BS

he Summer

Ned Elizabe ili
rol (Betty) w illiamson

aughter: M,
Stersburg,
&T Vacations at the cott

Jean

age.

at Port Sydney in 1878,
atry Sound Shortly

after
feces HON brakeman first, then became a pump
aM Until his Tetirement in 1945
11910 he Married ih

Henrietta Smit

Was born in Barrie in 1889. When

to Capreol, in 1915, they
© Buelers Spent their

Key in 1921-9) They Stay.
Car Situated Just

hin Parry Sound. She
Arthur was transferred
moved there where they remained.
first two summer vacations at the
€d in a former Tailway bunk-house

ilway car located just e

ast of where
today.

e is

In the 19205 the ore dock buildings were being torn down
and sold. Arthur Bueler and Fred McKay bought material
from the dock and, after floating it up river, they soon
ottages on their newly acquired lots
the mouth on the north side. These
by the families today.

d four daughters: Alice (Mrs. Ken

Cottages are still in use
Art and Henrietta ha

Jones) of Capreol, Hilda (Mrs. Bruce Clark) Parry Sound,
Edith (Mrs. Doug Dunsby) and Dorothea (Mrs. Omer
Matte) of Skead.

Henrietta Bueler died April 24, 1965, Arthur died at age
95 in 1973.

at Key |) “*ter trains to the retail markets, mostly in Toronto
the CNR fl. tites oe
oe ie don | “"rtecalled that one fall in the early 50’s a loc
e wore | Mercial fisherman, John Lahti, caught 13,000 lbs. of
TE rs: : “in one Pound net in one haul. Lahti called Trotter
i Dem 0110 buy ice. He needed ten tons to save the fish.
ee A000 of whiterics in New York at that time was
| rekey wae J), ound. iated the
See Mh, 8 Trotters term as Superintendent he negouale an
"e " feet of the coal dock to John Lahti. Mr. ee
1 scott c Xj “timbers and sawed most of it into ee es
Susan: as iy, Me excellent studding and nen ee : as
pile st Wy Shave some of this old dock Bie ie ute Penta 06
riod ROT. haa (Tansferred again from Capreol A oral veer Key Harbour Cowagers =) cuary
icha Pit, fa Office i Here he served in Se Pioneer Key im Long, Mrs. SF i Wi Fred
1d Dare | Unti| 1 Montreal. Her eee te Mekeoi P
vO chi rick "Noy lhe retired in 1967. 1 the past 40 Left Art (Etta) Bueler, Trotter, Fred McKay,
-d ae god My mae *Pent most of their summers in ee was Mrs. Mis DM ae Photo by Mrs. Betty
Rove gre ta the: ‘Y. The rest of the year, when he i Se Don Me ald M. Trotter. te
eit ch 10) NG oo home in Barrie. After a lengthy Lee oy Bueler,
1 page | Bro ey On July lly 1976 at the age O Trotter.

m
<oe ter, bO
“Mily: Donald MacPherson Trotter,

