# OCR Result for IMG_4294 2023-10-17 12_42_00.HEIC

Pillgrem Family
Meaford, Bustard Islands

In 1857, when he was 2 years old, James Pillgrem ad
to Meaford with his family from Trinity, Newfoundlane.
He married Agnes Mary Carson. They had three children:
eldest was Elizabeth Newhook, second, a son Aubrey
Maxwell; and the youngest was William. The children
attended school in Meaford. :

Elizabeth married Thomas Loblaw of Buffalo, and lived
there until her husband’s untimely death by tuberculosis.
After his death, Elizabeth went back home to Meaford
bringing her daughter Marjorie Elizabeth, who was not quite
two years old. Elizabeth tried her hand at different ways
to make a living, She was a milliner, and took in boarders.
When Marjorie was around 15 years old, Elizabeth married
Charles Sutherland, and soon moved to Kincardine where
Charles became an excellent cabinet maker.

Marjorie went to Toronto when she was in her late teens,
and worked as a telephone operator. When 24 she moved
to California and lived with relatives until she met and
married Francis Nash, and is now residing in Mira Loma
near Riverside, California. Elizabeth died at age 75 in
Kincardine.

Max Pillgrem married Pearl Stevenson. Pearl lived at
French River Village since she was a small girl. Max and
Pearl had no children. In 1912 they built a cottage on an
island across from the Highlanders Island. When the islands
were surveyed and named, they named the island ‘‘Pearl
Island’’. This property is now owned by Gerald Rubel. Max
died at the early age of 54. Pearl passed away in 1965.

William Pillgrem married Winnifred Mott in 1909. They
had five children: Agnes, Bessie, Frederick, Mary and Bill.

‘Agnes is now a widow and lives at Key Harbour. Bessie
married William Marr of Toronto. They have a cottage on
the Key River near the mouth. Bessie passed away November
21, 1980. Fred, the third child, was Deputy Minister of
Industry and Tourism for the Ontario Government when
he retired and now resides in Meaford with his wife Dorothy
(nee Richardson). Mary (Mrs. D.P. Morlock) lives in
Bracebridge. Peter her husband is a retired O.P.P. and they
have a cottage on the Key River next to Bill and Bessie
Marr. Bill Pillgrem, the youngest, married Emily Murray,
the only daughter of the late Peter Murray. Bill and Emily
now live in Parry Sound,where Bill is the mortician of the
Logan Funeral Chapel and also a talented photographer.
They have three children: Peter, Jennie and Danny.

William Pillgrem, Sr. died in March 1960. His wife,
Winnifred, lived. a very active life in Meaford until her
sudden death in November 1980 at the age of 91.

John Pillgrem, brother of James and great uncle of Agnes
Trott, was like a vagabond. He didn’t believe in working
anymore than was necessary for his survival. He loved to
be free to wander wherever he wished.

He built a punt, put a sail on it, and spent the summers
sailing around Georgian Bay. One year he followed the
shoreline from Meaford to the Bustards (many miles! ). His

winters were spent with his best friend George Haynes
44 ’

Fo |
Left to right: Fred Pillgrem, Bj)

Left to

James Pillgrem. and their father William Pillgrem Max P

i ‘ te:

father of Fred Haynes the great artist. George had his Ow courte
one in Meaford and was glad of John Pillgrem’s company

THE PILLGREM FAMILY, poor fre

COMMERCIAL FISHERMEN Rhee ce

Mr. James Pillgrem, Agnes Trott’s grandfather, lived jj the bus
Meaford, in the winter season, and fished there jj working
the late fall for lake trout. He and his family fished out g_ gill a
the Bustard Islands from May through to September, Th oe
Pillgrems lived on Meaford Island from 1875 to 1913, the 4 cc
they leased the Highlanders Island, situated on the nor} °° ‘1
side of the Bustards, and fished from this site until Jamey be ae
death in 1916. When fishing from Meaford Island, theyigg 1e¥ C4
and packed their fish on Yankee Island (““Ridout Island’ eee
on Government charts) as that was the Dominion Fis Let Off
Company’s base. After the death of Mr. Pillgrem, his tw ra Sat
sons William and Max continued commercial fishing fron Ker
the Highlanders Island until about 1934. Shortly after, thi the Soi
commercial fishing licence was sold to Jim Pillgrem,; The |
cousin, who carried on the business until the licence was sok lands
to Wilfred Lowe of Owen Sound around 1938. : ;

James Pillgrem started fishing with a steam tug called ae
“The Mascott’’. When he felt it was time to replace Thi boats (
Mascott with a new boat, he had a tug built and namedi Killarn
the “‘R.J. Morrell’’, after the builder. After James’ death When
the sons continued to use the “R.J. Morrell’’ (as shown ii 1925),
the picture on next page) until 1926 when they had anothe Afte
tug built in Thornbury by R.J. Morrell. They wanted tt Williar
name this new boat ‘‘The Pillgrem’’, but were unable tod’ Pointe
So as there was already a vessel registered in that namt Lough
Consequently they decided to call this tug ‘‘Mascott Il’ Bustar
It was a beautiful boat, a steel framed wooden steam tug the Hi
Naat ae of 76”, a beam of 15’, anda draft of 9°. Th

ice oe ae In the Parry Sound Harbour.
at Ke 1€s, tourists from Dr. Maybee’s Cal
tug for the day on on ee ne oes ee
This uve eee feular {Ips to watch the nets being ee
boat fariare ese °pportunity to fish off the stern of tt

> while the crew were lifting and sellill
the nets. Lake trout sometimes 45 pound

The Pillgrems hetted lak ae oe aoe 4sc0)
herring) dere cae e trout, whitefish tulibees (c ‘
and tulibées Were oh falpouts (ling), Only the trout, rae
Due to the depressi ee 2 po Ite :

'on and its aftermath, prices became

