# OCR Result for IMG_4410 2023-10-18 18_56_04.HEIC

Boats
Lake Huron Ve

Go where you will on Georgian Bay and let the talk turn
to vessels wrecked or lost, the name of the Asia will soon
be heard. Georgian Bay has swallowed up its scores of
vessels and broken hundreds more on its rocky shores. But
no other disaster on its waters has equaled, in loss of life,
that which accompanied the disappearance of this small
steamer. There was little attention in those days to passenger
and crew lists, and no one can say with certainty how many
people were on board the ‘‘Asia’’ when it left Owen Sound on
the night of September 13, 1882. But it is known that more
than 100 perished. Only two escaped death. During the four
days from the time of the vessels departure until an Indian
sailboat brought the two survivors of the disaster to Parry
Sound, families represented on the ship were left in har-
rassing uncertainty as to the fate of their relatives and
friends.

The ‘‘Asia’’ was a wooden vessel, 344. tons, 136 feet
and with a 26 foot beam. She was built at St. C
in 1873 and met early misfortune in 1881 when she
in Lake George. Raised and repaired, she ran
between Sarnia and Duluth but in the summer Of 1882 was
transferred to the Georgian Bay trade to take the place of
the Manitoulin which had burned a few months before, Ca
tain J.N. Savage was in command, John McDonald yas fi Bi
mate and John McDougal was purser. ae

It was the time of year when men and su
moving to the lumber camps, Barrels

158

in length
atharines
was sunk
for a time

Pplies were
and boxes of Provi-

inkings N :
and Boat aie Lost — the “Asia” 1882

“ASIA’’. Photo courtesy Ontario Archives.

ortheastern Georgian Bay

wa

sions were piled even on the hurricane deck of the little
steamer, while on the main deck were 8 horses. But to avoid
undue handling there was little freight in the hold and the
vessel was top heavy when she left the dock. Men in rough
clothes lay sleeping wherever they could find a corner; their
heads pillowed on ancient valises or on grain bags contain-
ing their few effects. Every cabin above was occupied by
passengers, most of whom had gone to their berths before
the ““Asia’’ cast off her lines and headed out into the sound.
It was a rough night even under the shelter of Saugeet
Penninsula and the steamer rolled considerably. Every fey
minutes a waye would strike the hull and send a shiver
through its framework. The crew kept the vessel out of the
trough of the seas, though in her top heavy condition this
was difficult. Most of the passengers were seasick am
unconscious of any danger threatening them. F
At seven o’clock in the morning the course was chane*
fo run straight across the bay for French River. This ue
about opposite the entrance between the Manitoulin [slancs
and the mainland, and at once the full force of ihe a
broke upon the little vessel. Soon she was wallowins in :
Tough and in danger of capsizing. Orders were ania

+ woull
throw Overboard much of the cargo but still the a a

Not respond to her helm. A gigantic wave smashe
hull and water swept through :
ho was on board went among the PY
m the dull terror which had seized UP” u

the cabin.
opl*
any:

Portion of the
clergyman w
seeking to cal

p.A. Tinkus, on
ture Of the last f
The aft gangw
to the main de
children who cou
of the vessel this
while the waves
in the meantime
were thrown fro
The cabin was a
the craft floated
at the head and
otk and the boa
Tinkis was in|
made her final p
was about to sit
for the Captai
combers on evé
debris, broke o
crest. My hand
reached the life’
driving fast bef
and other boat:
Christine Me
the wreck, jum
a wave, she was
hauled in by the
were more thé
repeatedly upse
vivors. When ¢
there was also”
hand who had

Night was cc
but the sea was
distance which
the mate, thos
hymn ‘‘Pull fe
and the boat 1
about. Voices.
Sang together

We have a
time. In addit
living were (
Named Little <
One by one t
Shock of the d.
Next and thet

Ometime aft
asleep, and w
+ Pll be up i
Moment and

ead,

The boat We
Placed the bo
Washed out. I
“ep Or rest,

"Owsiness me

