
***PROCESSED***

# OCR Result for IMG_4262 2023-10-17 12_41_01.HEIC

Young

French River Mouth ¢ 1900-1934

Robert ‘‘Bob’’ Young, lightkeeper French River Mouth
beside his home on Main Street.

Bob Young and his wife came from Belfast Ireland to
French River Mouth before the turn of the century. He came
there to work in the Ontario Lumber Company mill.

Bob later bacame a Government lighthouse keeper at
French River Mouth. Each day he would row his boat out
to the light on Lefroy Island which was a considerable
distance and, if the water was rough, a hazardous trip.

While servicing the lights one fall he was accidently shot
and wounded in the side, arm and hand, by a ricocheting
bullet, presumed fired by deer hunters. It did not have
enough force after hitting him to embed itself in the
lighthouse. The spent bullet was retrieved and was of an
unusual caliber for that period.

After being wounded, Bob managed to row back to the
village. Jim McIntosh promptly took him in his boat to
Parry Sound Hospital where he recovered.

One day while Bob was servicing the lights some thieves
broke into his house and stole clothing and family
possessions.

Bob’s wife died during the midwinter months in the
early 1930’s. As they were the only people living in that
remote area at that time, he was unable to bury her body
in the severe cold weather. He built a coffin and kept her
body frozen in a back room waiting for someone to come.
Members of the King family, from Bad River were
lumbering nearby and were the first to arrive with their team
of horses and sleigh. Mrs. Young’s body was taken to Parry
Sound for burial.

The Youngs had two daughters. One married and moved
away, the other married Charlie Moore. She died at a very
young agé.

After Bob’s wife died he stayed on at 40 Main Street
although Main Street of the village, by this time, was long
gone and was grown up in weeds and bushes. He lived alone
with his faithful friend and companion, a black and white
collie dog.

For years Bob was a self appointed caretaker for the
government, of the remains of the ghost town. He also acted
as guide to any tourist visiting the townsite.

In later years he did not look after himself properly
and became undernourished and sick. In 1934 his life-long
friend Jim McIntosh took him and his belongings, in his
boat, to Parry Sound to recuperate. When he became strong
enough he returned to Ireland, never to see his beloved
French River Mouth again.

Small range-light at the mouth of French River. Mrs.
Arthur A. Borron nee Edna Hayton of Gravenhurst.

E.B. Borron’s house at the south part of French River
Village. House was desroyed by fire. Photos courtesy
Borron family.

13

