# OCR Result for IMG_4400 2023-10-17 12_46_00.HEIC

Key River Cottage”

BOESEN ¢ KEY a ¢ the Key Rivet

Karl Boesen of New York City first hear - isk, who

and Key Harbour area from an Cs 4 Commerce in
at the time was the head of the Cham

und. 1951, where
ee Niels, Karl came to Parry SoU eas they
they boarded a CNR train to Ludgate. Ped nee oat
went by boat down the Key. On this trip ie ton ide.
a cottage site up river from Muskrat Bay on i vaiped in
Karl hired Bob Currie to build his cottage: Niels artnet
the construction. It was one of the first cottages DUI

he river. es
ae family moved from New York to Pe
1954. Karl was in the rare books business. He died in ai :
Niels, his wife Pam and their son Erik vacation at the co g

each year.

KEY CLUB ¢ KEY RIVER

On June 12th, 1952, a group of men from Wheatley-
Leamington area of Ontario purchased parcel No. 5623
summer resort location 1C296 from the Government. They
built their cottage on this lot three and one-half miles down
Key River from the Highway on the north side. It was used
then for a deer hunting club.

The original group was: Joseph Dales of Leamington,
Dean Pickle of Staples, Evereth Coles, Clifton, William and
Chadwick Cates — all of Wheatley, and Mancen Cates from
Toronto.

On August 7, 1968, under Transfer No. 69201, ownership
was transferred to Ken Chadwick, Garth Chadwick, Larry
Brown, James Robby, and Dean Pickle all from Wheatley.

The cottage, of recent years, is used the year-round for
hunting, snowmobiling and summer vacations.

RYAN e KEY RIVER
Tom and Evelyn Ryan are from Novar. He first visited
the area and picked out his lot on the north side of Key River
in 1960. They purchased the lot from the Department of
Lands and Forests in 1962, and built their cottage in 1964
They visit the cottage a number of times each year The
Ryans have four children, two boys and two girls.

ULRICH ¢ KEY RIVER

The Ulrich family came to the Key River in 1962. stay;
at Ed Lewis’ tourist camp at the Highway. In ee : oe
bought the cottage they stayed in that year for their ey,
use. In 1965, they added to the cottage, and mad private
addition in 1971. i a0° another

Walter (Wally) and Doroth i .

Donald and wife Marie Beek He ue
children, Bruce and Christine. Kenneth Ean a have two
Carfu, N.Y. have two children, Nancy and Nee Paula of
and wife Delorah of Lancaster have three Ee nale Bill
Jason and Rick; also Rick and wife Pat of L ren Buddy,
two children, Andrew and Kathryn; Douglas ine ie

eUS,

148

serving in the Far East.

ihe Ulrich family spent many enjoyable Summ RES ° KE}
: CTs ay te | 6h derick Alexandi
cottage: i | ert ried Lydia An
MORTIMER-CZERWINSKI * KEY Riyy, e marex. England.
Mortimers of Toronto bought a large double / in pabetl Jane we
th side of Key River in the first narrows, ph. Nth | £ obert Jo -
so «in the early 1950's. Mortimers sold one i built, sr cedores purcni
ais a Czerwinski purchased Mortimers Cott, - i Pe of Hien
in 1971 and added to the original cottage, Eugene val vall jan :

wife are from Toronto. They have 2 children; Siefy

i ate =
of car
an | i red puilt the

Ben and Eve Hicks came to Key River at High oe reached Key ae
in 1965. They purchased a lot and building from Day i) weit resort uee
Frank Patton of London. ahd CNR station ae

The Hicks are from Woodstock. They have made sedores ae
provements and additions since 1965. Ben and Eye i . 1952. By ioe ie ne
daughter Susan, (Mrs. Bagley). Ae the Sou

NEWTON ¢ KEY RIVER AT HIGHWAY 69 ee they compl

The Edmond Newton family lived at Ludgate on the eas} some local cottages

side of the Key River close to Mr. Crozier’s COttage, of the resort in the «

Edmond’s son, Lindy R. Newton leased a lot on the SOuth (
side of Key River at Highway 69, in 1960. He builtahome |
there for him and his family. Lindy married Marga
Warren Feb. 5, 1949. They have eight children; Linda,
Johnny, Brenda, Marie, Ruthann, Margaret, Gregory ani
Jeffrey.

Bob).

Fred left the Ke,
Harbour area. Fro
in Barrie was that
known ‘‘Delaney ]
some of Delaney’
carpenter. Each sf
to assist in camp

In the late 80’s
helping his neight

Camp Dore ha:
number of years t
had housekeepin
preparing meals
handle. Since the

tetired, at age 8:

Toronto.

Bob Sedore ha:
in the area for ye

RSA eS ! sea) he i i
Lindy Newton family. Front row, left to right; Marga ae ae ee
Marie, Jeffrey. Standing left to right; Linda, Johnn), | and earn facil
Newton, Lindy, Brenda, Ruthann, Gregory. :

ably assisted by
STOERIG e KEY RIVER

Fred married Shirley (nee Williamson of Orill
Operated the truck stop at Still River, and sold the
m 1973. They bought Ed Lewis Camp in 1972 and bu!
large two story log style home on the prope!ty: “fo
au: retiring, Fred now does summer seasonal a aps
the Ministry of Natural Resources at Grundy Park andi
In the winter. ath
Shirley is a receptionist at the Medical Centl® me

hey have two children, William and Bonnie, whos |
at home, 2

ja, The
pusine®
ill?

in

The Stoerj cottage ' es.
gs pur ’s Pine Island =

1978. Purchased Otto’s Pine Sedore's Can
