# OCR Result for IMG_4330 2023-10-17 12_43_23.HEIC

is of it) for

_ When the

close, they |
resident t0 ~

, the Lahtis
= jceé, 4 ver it
-e alsove

¥
ee aerate:

egg twit

ona

a

Lahti sawmill.

poor: pike 10¢ per Ib., pickerel (walleye) 15¢, whitefish 18¢,
mullet or suckers 2¢, sturgeon 65-75¢ per Ib. Commercial
fishing success meant long, cold and wet hours of back-
breaking work and many disappointments, but, with good
Management, a financial success for many. Samuel Lahti’s
sons still are carrying on the tradition in a limited way by
ak nets each year. Edla Lahti died in 1959. John Sr. died
In 1969,

SAMUEL LAATI

Samuel and his wife Helmi operated a service station and
store on Highway 69 south and Wanup Road from 1951 till
1978. They are now retired.

They have eight children: Elsie (Mrs. Bradley), Miriam
(Mrs, Kotila), Samuel Jr., Margaret (Mrs. Bite), Frances
(Mrs. Korpi), Karl, Donald and Ronald.

The children and their families visit the old Lahti

®mestead many times each summer.

RAGOT ¢ KEY RIVER HIGHWAY 69

Su “a : and Mrs. Michael Ragot, with their family came from

at a In 1954 to operate Lahti’s Gulf Station and marina

Ti ~ River. They have three children: Michael Jr. of Bar-

» Marcelle (Mrs. Norman Campbell), Susan (Mrs. Robert
tte) both of Sudbury.

Lahti original
homestead base camp.
Key Harbour

Fishing tug being completed
ART LAHTI ¢ KEY HARBOUR

Art Lahti has an island and cottage on the west side of
the Finn Channel near the Harbour. Art and his wife Sirkka
have two daughters; Marlene (Mrs. Matto Pasivirta) and
Marie (Mrs. Larry Kokkonen). The Pasivirta family visit
the cottage many times in the summer.

Author’s note: After one reads this fantastic story of the
hard work and achievements of the Lahti family, we can
honestly say this family was truly one of the pioneer families
of Key Harbour area in this century.

79

