***PROCESSED***


Where some of the town’s residents had planted fruit trees
years ago, offsprings of the original trees are still producing,
apples today. (The writer sampled some in 1979). Still visible
are parts of the brick wall of the warehouse, jail, parts of
one of the mills, boiler, walls and chimney of the
powerhouse, flywheel and other parts of machinery. The
range lighthouse is still in use.

Dean Udy was the last person to run the Ontario Lumber
Company’s Store and Post Office. In the early years of the
Company store, it supplied their employees with most staple
goods. There are no records to confirm methods used, but
it is presumed Ontario Lumber ran their store similar to
others of that era. Most companies paid the employees in
vouchers redeemable for requirements at the store. In
October 1922 the store and Post Office was closed for good.

DEAN UDY * FRENCH RIVER VILLAGE

Storekeeper, magistrate and game warden when required,
Dean Udy ran the Ontario Lumber Company store. After
the Company closed he kept the store and post office until
1922. He was well known in the area. The Udys had a
daughter Alberta, and a son Bert.

Dean Udy left French River Village in 1923 and moved
to Pine Lake on the upper Pickerel River, where the original
mill at French River Mouth had been moved and rebuilt in
1912. At Pine Lake he built a store and post office which
he ran until his death in 1930.

Over the 30 to 40 years the mills were in operation at
French River Mouth, millions of logs were floated in river
drives down the Wanapitei, Pickerel and French Rivers in
raft-booms or singly. Each company first stamped its owner-
ship mark on the ends of each log, before the downstream
trip. Most log booms or rafts were put together up river,
on the French and were towed by tugs run by John and Peter
McIntosh. Their crews would go up river to different
staging areas where the logs were sorted out and made into
rafts and booms. These were towed downstream to a holding
place above the Dalles Rapids. From there were floated
down through the rapids to Macdougal Bay and the mills
below. Some of the logs were cut into lumber and the rest
made into large rafts.

Enormous rafts of thousands of logs were gathered
together in Macdougal Bay Channel at the mouth of the
French. The rafts were towed and pushed out to be con-
solidated on the leeward north side of the Bustard Islands,
here to wait for favourable winds and good weather condi-
tions. When the weather was calm enough the long tow was
started across the bay to many destinations on Georgian Bay
and the Great Lake ports.

John McIntosh and His Boom Company staff formed
these rafts with the tugs ‘“‘Elsie Mac’’ and the ‘“‘Audrey C’’.
They would then help by pushing them all night, out to the
Bustards holding area. Booms were made by using a heavy
chain or cable fastened securely to each end of each log.
These chained logs completely encircled the thousands of
loose logs to form a raft.

