# OCR Result for IMG_4384 2023-10-17 12_45_25.HEIC

132

Rest and relaxation

That’s what holidays are for,

And when you only have a weekend
You need it even more.

Fred settled at his sister's Camp,

A wee place on The Key.

He thought, “‘For rest and relaxation
This is just the place for me”.
Dorothy and her parents

Completed the little group,

And they brought all their provisions -

Everything from nuts to soup.

To commune with Mother Nature
Was for Fred a real great joy.
He’d loved the northern country
Ever since he was a boy.

The squirrels and the chipmunks,
The beavers and the hare,

But what he hadn’t reckoned on
Was the big old pesky bear.

In the stillness of the summer night
When everyone was snoozing

Little did they realize

The bear was out a-cruising.

With the berry bushes all dried up
She didn’t know just where

She could ever find sufficient food
To feed a hungry bear.

The scent of peaches came a-wafting’
As she ambled over the rocks.

She said to herself, “I do believe
That’s coming from Morlock’s’’,
Bears love fruit of any kind,
Especially a peach;
And there was a whole basket full
Right within her reach,
Smash the screen and grab the basket
That’s all she had to do.

Fred and The Bear

nd all those yummy peaches
Would be hers to sit and chew
She carried out that caper
With a lot of noise and clatter,
And everyone jumped up inside
To see what was the matter.
“That big bear stole my peaches!”’,
Fred cried with great dismay,
And ran to try to catch her
Before she got away.
Dorothy’s dad came out a-running
In pyjamas with a gun,
But it’s pretty hard to shoot a bear
When you don’t know where she’s run.

Next morning there was the basket
Lying empty on the ground,
But to Fred’s great astonishment
There wasn’t a pit to be found.
“Where did all the peach pits go?”
Was the thought that came to mind.
He simply couldn’t understand
Why they weren’t left behind.

The puzzle of the peach pits

Was solved another day

When that old bear relieved herself
At a cabin far away.

Those people found her excrement
And couldn’t help but smile

When they saw all the peach pits
In a tidy little pile.

When Fred heard of this discovery
He was pleased in many ways.

The mystery of those darned peach pils

Had been bothering him for days.

Rest and relaxation ...

You sure won’t find it there

If the scent of your yummy peaches

Can be picked up by a bear.
Dy.

Mar) rotlo®

the train could be fro’
would have to walt :
ip a month the $5
In 1948 the store ¢
school had also been
residents was then |
Office a short dista
John and Josep!
Junction: Jean, Ge
Krystias moved to S
George are both m
In 1955 they t
buildings and prop:
ny Key Junction
ished dismantlir
fice at the Junctic
4 Jithey cars t¢
Thee n& by boz
the Jas :
ae nook Ca’
| Mthe fay materi
Of 196
