# OCR Result for IMG_4342 2023-10-17 12_43_52.HEIC

col ships docked with their prows tow
ne Alter unloading the dock side of the
Ube ; allac » *
mped Into ballast tanks on that side, The boat
1 ww! ned around with prow facing out to tl pees
ayer! te finished cleaning out the load,

ard the
boat, water

1¢ Bay. The

pos coal dock was completely made of w
: i to most docks and railroad bridges at th
i coal dock was three tracks wide and 1,200
ae ran straight west from the mainland It I Ae
catwalk from the inside centre over to the ae

dient ©
north, close to the old iron

00d pilings
at time, Key

as generating building on the
Jas pase. This generating building still stands today
rhe plant supplied powel ee dock lights required for
atoms and other CNR buildings. It also pumped _

or the system used by the Harbour activities,

The shipping and coal unloading season at Key Harbour
was relatively short, approximately six weeks in June and
uly. In this short period the ships would bring from 125,000
10 150,000 tons of coal to supply CNR northern regions
gored at Hanmer north of Sudbury.

CNR employees ran the docks, cranes and power plant,
ind maintained all the buildings. District CNR foreman
frank Julian and his crew were responsible for dock opera-
on and track maintenance from Key Junction to the
Harbour.

Ernie West was one of the Brown hoist engineers in the
atly years. He would bring his family to the Harbour for
hesummer, Their house was north of the tracks, used later
by Mrs, Hazzard for a store.

Crane operators and dock workers were housed in railroad
work-crew cars parked on a side track at the Harbour. They
vere fed in what later became Key Harbour Lodge. The firm
of Crawley, McCraken of Toronto eatered the food.

ater

SHIPS VISITING KEY HARBOUR

The docks and Harbour were well situated for a straight
huninto the docks from Dokis Island with a wide channel
thd Water depths from 24’ to low water years of 19° at
lochside, This meant, with 24? depth, there was 3:1} /2’ more
pth for boats than in the locks at Sault Ste. Marie.
om boats called at Key H ret ae
‘00 small - Hoa en in the channel.

he late Dave Fh He : : lect - of Customs a Key
our for at ; I s = : = sd many times the Story
“aptain Se : - ‘i : ma aa Pioneer Steamship
| pany +44 See Mee ete from Rocky Rivers

Ohio. Al utchinson fleet skipper EL ats Harbour
lea), though the Captain hadn’t been ne a ricacies
vy © 8 & ship into the ore dock. He = eiveed shore in

et tr
ny ud > PRE SES ty “wy * =
le navigational markings On the fs and

iy “8s th rough rock ree

Mande 1. eat guided the ships th
The “ading to the Harbour channel. «ship of
} ‘ DY > . . S 3
Me C9) “Plain of the flagship Berryton, @ 28 hater § Lap
“Ric “Mal Line had a bet he could pring the flags me)
Nay. Vas ad a bet he cou’ 4.» chips, into Ke
Thy, : much longer than the usual 500 ae “without
aid hic > 4s tet tha
bap, (turn it around, It seems he did just!

mY
Qty

Many cu
Tren
day when the ne Harbour residents remember well the
ship turned around in the harbour. Its

POWerful pro
: Pellers
Surging upriver, oe a four-foot wall of mud and water

captain done fe Key did not clear for days, but the

€ Coloni re

nic. nial Steamship line was owned by the Misener
- One of the family was a captain,

6s

a Mae KING’? GROUNDED
south of Dead (hain nce uy ne ship, went aground
Burke ac ats e early 1930’s. The Captain, Roy
another ie Soin eee ee marked channel for
reefs. When the ship’s oe : ey es = ee
duihed EouRH is fronna as reduced, the Midland King
free on its own power, The Midie a eas
up with their tug “The St e Saeed

: g, rathbogie’’, under the command
©. Capvain (“Pinky’’) Smith towing the lightening barge

Salvis ", captained by Burt Lawless. Paul Ruston’s father
Bill, worked on the barge.

The barge Salvis was equipped with two clam bucket
cranes. These cranes unloaded enough coal from the
Midland King onto the barge, to allow the ship to float free
of the shoal. Both the ship and barge proceeded to Key Har-
bour, and were unloaded by the coal-dock equipment.

FRANK JULIAN AND FAMILY
Key Harbour, 1930's - 1940's
as told by Margarite Alexander

Frank Julian was the perennial CNR foreman at Key
Harbour for years. He worked out of Parry Sound district
office and each summer would move his family to Key
Harbour for the summer months.

He and his maintenance crew were responsible for the
spurline tracks’ condition from Key Junction to the
Harbour. They were also responsible for keeping the docks,
buildings, and services in proper working condition while
port and docks were in use. :

After boats quit coming into Key Harbour, he worked
out of his home base at Parry Sound till his sudden death
from a fatal coronary attack in 1957. ee

Frank Julian married Assunta Proietti in 1914. They had
a family of four girls; eldest Margarite (Alexander), fan
Sound; Anne (Staker), Lively: Lena (Dennie), Lively; and

Speeyqan aoe 49. Mrs. Julian resided in
youngest Jean, deceased at age

Parry Sound,

