# OCR Result for IMG_4323 2023-10-17 12_43_09.HEIC

MACLEOD’S CAMP ¢ KEY HARBOUR

John ‘“‘Jack?? MacLeod’s parents came from the Isle of
Skye, Scotland, and settled in Lucknow, Ontario. John
started working for the CNR at age 16. He was a station
agent in Capreol, Gogama, Richmond Hill and Key Junc-
tion — serving Key Harbour Spur Line traffic.

John married Emma Justina Pilon from Sudbury in 1920.
Her father and brothers came from Montreal to Sudbury
where they settled and farmed what is now part of the city.

John MacLeod served at Key Junction from 1930 until
his early retirement in 1949. He retired a couple of years
ahead of time to take a job as traffic supervisor for Ben
Mervyn Lumber Company in Sudbury. He worked for Mer-
vyn Lumber until he took ill. John died at the age of 72 on
May 28, 1958.

The MacLeods had two sets of twin boys. The elder set
was George and a twin that died shortly after birth. Next
were twins James William and Murdock. Murdock was
killed in World War II. Youngest of the family is Audrey
Edith Marie. She married Ernest Loukidelis of North Bay.
Ernest is now a judge in Parry Sound.

George MacLeod served overseas in the Royal Canadian
Air Force during World War II. He was discharged in 1945.

MACLEOD’S CAMP

Jack MacLeod, while working at Key Junction, saw the in-
crease in tourists and fishermen visiting Key Harbour, and
was instrumental in helping his son George start in the tourist
business. He first obtained a lease for property from the
CNR south of the Harbour, where they started to build their
camp in 1946.

George built much of the main lodge and a large cottage
at the docks. He hired a local resident carpenter and handy
man, Konsta Pukkila, to help him with the cottage construc-
tion. They added cottages one at a time. George cut, peeled
and hauled all the logs to build two cottages still in use to-
day. His brother Jim, mother, father, and sister Audrey
oes him whenever they were able by carrying materials,
staining and painting around the camp.

2

ee ise zs
Photos courtesy of Audrey Loukidelis ar

Bs Leod, right Jim
«5, Jack ee scott Smith.

jen
left a fri :

eee 5 Centre Mr
MacLeod,

nd Bill Stahle.

cLeod’s Camp 1

eS es

,

Bill Stahle

with large pike, Ma
George started the camp at a very appropriate time. The
tourist business was starting to increase by leaps and |
bounds after the restricted war years. He first advertised in
a limited scale in the different Toronto papers to promote
the camp. Later he used such nationally known magazines
as Field and Stream, Outdoor Life and Ontario Sportsman's
Guide This Promotion soon brought them a_ very
es clientele, Some of these first guests and theif
ae were still staying at the resort in the late 1970's.
Oe ors when his guests requi 4 :
vided other services. : cauined he
Audrey MacLeod
it . inst
Harbour (1950-51) oe ae lol yo sun ae
mer school for | er graduating from university. Sul
T local children was first held j samp $
Main cottage and the last ene ee
point. Some of the puni year, in a cottage on the not!
€ pupils taught by A htis
Lytes and M y Audrey were Lae
allettes. The chi 3)
Bye es Nea children attended school ° |
ay through September. Later a 2 |

(3 th Ta S ;
a bour across from K y I jal pou!

