# OCR Result for IMG_4386 2023-10-17 12_45_28.HEIC

KEY JUNCTION POST OE emistress at

Sara Laroque 1s believed to be the us . : vot KNOWN

Key Junction. The post office's openine a 1 1930 and left
to this writer. Sara married Arthur Gropp }!

( st Office from
the area. Mrs. Krystia ran the Key Junction Post O
1930 to its closing in 1948.

KEY JUNCTION SOT Many children
The school was opened in the fall of 192 ea siended
from Key Junction area, Pickerel and Key Hat
school during the 17 years it ae
Teachers over the years were: ; oe
Miss M. Peddie; 1934, Miss A. Rutledge, ee ete
Kelly; 1943, Miss K. Reid; 1944, Mrs. Sh Ses a 380
H. Daniluk. Wages for teachers were between $70 4
per month, The school was closed in 1948.

Miss Kensys 1933,

VALENTINE SOCIAL AT KEY JUNCTION
FEBRUARY 1945
(As reported in The Sudbury Star)

An enjoyable Valentine social and dance was held
Monday night, at Key Junction. The gathering took place
in the community hall with Russell McIntosh supplying the
music for the occasion, assisted by Miss Zeda Newton, and
Melton Dutchery. Refreshments were in the charge of Mrs.
J. Krystia, Mrs. Wm. Oakes, and Mrs. A. Lukoff. Among
the many guests enjoying the social were: Mr. and Mrs. W.
Oakes, Mr. and Mrs. J. Krystia, Mr. and Mrs. A. Praque,
Mr. and Mrs. H. Newton, Mr. and Mrs. Peter Newton, Mrs.
A. Lukoff and Mrs. N. Labovitch, of Capreol: Ed Newton,
Mrs. Shirley Newton, Miss Margaret Warren, Miss L.
Newton, Harry McIntosh, Miss Ruth Warren, Willard
Warren, Miss Carol Lyte, Miss H. Daneluw, Miss Weselena
Warren, Miss D. McIntosh, Irvine Newton, Miss Rose
Chevrette, Bert Newton, Miss Jean Krystia, Lindy Meltron,
Michael Lukoff, H. Robertson, and many others.

Pickerel River landing a short distance
crosses the Pickerel River.
134

north of Key

Junction whe

Krystia

(Booth continued)
unknown. It seems either early fall hunters, or ber;
left a campfire not completely extinguished and a
started.

After the fire, Dr. Booth and family returne tos
damage done. The heart went out of him after they s
destruction to their large pines and cedar trees.

Ce the

Dr. Booth was in failing health, and sold the cottage ay |
island to Ben Berkowitz, Sam Volin and Newton Volin ne

Cleveland in 1950.

Dr. Harold Simons Booth born January 30, 1891, ;
Cleveland, died June 23, 1950. Wife Hazel Lavinia (ne
Anthony) born in Cleveland died May 1956,

Their daughters were Marilyn Jane and Elizabeth Lydia,

Marilyn married Donald C. Opatrny July 15, 1950. Ther |
children are: Donald, Robert, David and Susan, M. 4

Opatrny passed away suddenly on December 14, 1980.

Elizabeth married Richard E.M. Miller February 11, 196.

They have two children Thomas W. and Mary Elizabeth.
Both families live in Pepper Pike, Ohio.
Berkowitz sold to Martin West Vorys of Theresa N.Y. Ht

sold the cottage to Dr. R. Jack a dentist from Kitchentt.

re the CNR : ‘ chi,
CNR Station agent, Phil Gniazdosk!

Key Junction.

Y Dickey, 1
1OOt fire

aW the |

0 4

New

Oakes’

School House

KEV TIINCTION
