---
layout: post
title:  "The Edmund Fitzgerald!"
date:   2022-10-11 00:00:19 -0400
categories: reminisence
feature_image: /images/Edmund Fitzgerald.jpg
---

[Rick Stout, November 10 2022 in Facebook group "Boating Georgian Bay"]( https://www.facebook.com/groups/196143790755836/?multi_permalinks=1728964307473769&hoisted_section_header_type=recently_seen&__cft__[0]=AZUBiGPSf-66EuWhJBCg-T8fDLhUkdvQTFgTYnC51CcCugX0dZzt7IBTt9LTvBQhBNmWi-mVwhZFY73I_Eo3DovoMcUe3Ypaeek21l0BpayAP-Ym8D-kfHE3sm0INyhfMy-SQx2LK_KPkM4yPQ6R3ehrVT5hsSH2WNEGvd9WWb64aKEJpMDOjN3rNmaLfHcYRek&__tn__=%2CO%2CP-R) posted the following:

November the 10th 1975, the wind was howling from the north. Twelve boats were still in the water at the Georgian Yacht Club in Owen Sound awaiting lift out with a crane the next day.Yacht Club security guard Sid Turner and myself were kept running with broken lines, fenders broke off and boats caught under the docks. The surge was about two feet inside the basin and the waves were hitting the outer rocks with spray flying in the air.Soon after supper the dock chairman Don Capel came along. We went aboard my father's boat where there was a pot of coffee brewing. Don advised us that another boat was on its way from Kenora Ontario by truck to also be lifted off the float with the crane next morning, however it was caught in a whiteout on Hwy 69 near Parry Sound. It was a beautiful classic Chris Craft cruiser owned by new member George Winter who was with the Ontario Provincial Police in Mount Forest. We assured Don that we would be there all night checking boats if the float arrived. Don left while Sid and I went to do another round to check the fleet. About midnight, the truck came slowly over the hill. The driver was local and un-coupled the truck and left. We did another check on the boats before bedding down on my father's boat, agreeing neither of us went off the boat without waking the other for safety to go the boats..Every hour we got up and went out to check each boat. After the 5am check, there was no sense in going back to bed as the crane was coming at 8am. We put another pot of coffee on and turned the 6am news on the local radio station. The headline was "Searchers of the Canadian and US Coast Guard along with several Great Lakes ships are searching the waters fifteen miles north of Whitefish Point in Lake Superior for the 729 foot Great Lakes ore carrier Edmund Fitzgerald that went off radar around 7pm last night! 29 crew members were aboard the Fitzgerald. As day break came a crane arrived at the yacht club from E.C. King Contracting but operator Lionel Keenan said it was just to dangerous to lift boats in this wind. The talk among the guys who had arrived to lift their boats was the ship that was missing in Lake Superior. Lionel told the truck driver with the Chris Craft from Kenora that he would come down early on Monday morning and set the Chris Craft off to free up the truck but the rest of the boats would have to wait til Wednesday when the crane was free again. By 10 am a couple of sailors whose boats were still in the water decided that the liquor store was now open on the dock of the Owen Sound inner harbour. Four or five guys including myself jumped on Jack Silverthorn's 27 foot Catalina sailboat to motor up in the harbour about a half mile away. As we exited the yacht club, the boat took a lurch in the air and the mast that was on horses on the deck went over the side. A couple of the stays were still attached and the guys grabbed them as Jack was fighting to control the boat. Lucky we got the mast lashed along side while Jack got turned to get back behind the break wall and back into the basin. This not being such a good move we got the sailboat back on a dock and got the mast back on deck. By the next day the seas had calmed. Listening to the news, debris of oil barrels and two badly beaton life boats had been found in the area where the Edmund Fitzgerald went missing but no sign of survivors. The ship had just vanished! In the following week, under water sonar showed two large metal objects on the bottom of Lake Superior where the Fitzgerald was last seen on the Arthur M Andersons radar. A closer view showed the bow section of a large ship in the upright position and a stern section upside down identifying it was most likely the Fitzgerald. As the storm was approaching with two weather systems possibly colliding over Lake Superior, both Captain Ernest McSorley of the Fitzgerald and Captain Bernie Cooper of the Arthur M Anderson decided before the storm hit, they would seek shelter in the north winds from the north shore of Lake Superior in Canadian waters. Both well experienced Captains, the Edmund Fitzgerald was in the lead as both ships came out of different ports.  Both ships would follow the shore until their turning point south north west of Michipicoton Island in which the would get lee from Michipicoton Island to round Caribou Island to the south of them. Then is would be a straight run from Caribou Island into the shelter of Whitefish Bay above the Soo locks at Sault Ste Marie. The only threat other than the weather itself was Six Fathom Shoal off Caribou Island. With boat ships being American ships in Canadian waters, the charts they used were published in the U.S. As they rounded Caribou Island Captain McSorly radioed Captain Cooper to say his fence rail was down and he had lost his Radar but he had also developed a list on the ship and was taking on water. Cooper discussed with his wheelhouse crew that "He" thought it looked like the Fitzgerald was too close to Six Fathom Shoal. The two ships carried on south From Caribou Island to Whitefish Bay as Captain Cooper radioed the Fitzgerald again to ask how he was doing? Captain McSorley's reply was "We're holding our own!" These were the last words heard from the Edmund Fitzgerald. Shortly after around 7pm, the mate of the Anderson who was watching the radar said to Captain Cooper, "Their Gone!"..The Fitzgerald is gone!" The mate said "He was just there on one scan and gone on the next!" Cooper checking with the binoculars could no longer see the lights of the Edmund Fitzgerald which he had been seeing. He tried calling the Edmund Fitzgerald on the radio but with no reply. He then called the Coast Guard radio station at Whitefish Bay and explained "The Edmund Fitzgerald was right ahead of us and he went off our radar and there is no sight of his lights." The shore radio station ask Bernie Cooper if he would turn around and go back and look! That is a hard call for any captain to do as you have to thing of the safety of your own crew and ship, however there is a ship missing with twenty nine lives aboard so as any seaman would feel, if it was you in that situation you would hope another ship would come you your rescue. Captain Cooper made the decision to turn around and go back, joined by the William Clay Ford that was anchored in Whitefish Bay. Both ships searched into the night with no trace of the Edmund Fitzgerald. As the months went on an inquiry was started into the Fitzgeralds sinking. As it sank in Canadian waters, Transport Canada lead the investigation. Underwater cameras were used to look at the torn steel plating as well as the clamps holding the deck hatches in place. Transport Canada's findings were that several of the clamps were not in place holding the hatch down while others were secured blaming it on error of the hatches not being secured letting water into the ships cargo holds and weighing her down. However like any boat hatch, the water would be minimal getting under the hatch with the weight of the hatch itself. The U.S. Coast Guard did their own investigation and focused more on Captain Bernie Coopers conversation with his crew that he thought the Fitzgerald was too close to Six Fathom Shoal on Caribou Island. A look at both the Canadian Chart and the American Chart showed the American Chart showing Six Fathom Shoal closer to Caribou Island then the Canadian chart did. Cooper felt that both ships using the US charts, that Captain McSorly was closer to the island in only thirty to forty feet of water. This with a 27 foot draft on a calm day would clear the shoal, however with waves as they were, the Fitzgerald possibly touched the shoal breaching her hull. Shortly after passing the shoal is when McSorley reported to Captain Cooper that he was taking on water and developed a list. Ships are built to flex over their length, they can be noisy with vibrations throughout. Who knows, Captain McSorley may have known he touch and now who is around to say if McSorley didn't say anything to alarm his crew and just hoping the ship hung on until safety. Many ships over the years have broken their back because if wrongful loading or groundings. Personally I feel it makes more sense then hatch clamps being the reason. From that point on with water coming into a ship with no water tight bulk heads, the water may have sloshed from end to end driving her bow under water or the ship just continue to tear the steel until there was no strength left and it simply broke in two pieces. As for the hatch clamps that weren't secured, the twisting and bending of the ship in the seas could surely pop the hatch clamps off. I can guarantee that a man with Captain Ernest McSorley's experience, he most certainly would not go face into a storm without making sure that all the precautions needed were done. Its something we will never know for sure, however with my years of experience with boats and ships from a small child, some forty seven years after the fact, I have to side with Bernie Cooper and his thoughts. In 1995, twenty years after the Fitzgerald sank, an expedition was organized to retrieve the ships bell off the Edmund Fitzgerald and replace it with a new bell with each of the crew members names engraved on it. The original bell is on display at the museum at Whitefish Point in Michigan. As well the life boats are on display at the Valley Camp Marine Museum in Sault Ste Marie Michigan.
A documentary was also filmed by a Canadian company where the Algoma Marine lake ship V.W.Scully had her name changed to Edmund Fitzgerald for the last trip of the season. The Scully laid up for the winter as usual in Georgian Bay's Port McNicol however in the 1978 79 winter it laid up with the haunting name if "Edmund Fitzgerald" Many say they remember the Edmund Fitzgerald in Port McNicol however the original Edmund Fitzgerald was strictly and ore carrier trading into US ports only.Today on the forty-seventh anniversary of the Edmund Fitzgerald sinking, I was invited as a guest on the John Oakley AM 640 Toronto radio show to speak about the Edmund Fitzgerald as over the years its still hard to believe how the Great Lakes could swallow such a big ship.